                   ASTERIX - OPERATION GETAFIX

Typed in by ???. Edited by PARASITE.


1. THE STORY

1.1 WHEN OBELIX MAKES AN IRREPARABLE MISTAKE.
Obelix who was aiming at the Romans, has thrown a menhir on to Getafixs head.
The poor druid is no longer in his right mind: he calls Asterix <<Sir>>, finds
Obelix a real scream and loves the music Cacofonix plays. He has gone nuts, no
doubt.

Getafix is the only one who can make the beverage which could cure him, but he
cannot ever remember his own name. Worse than that, he no longer knows how to
make-THE POTION, the magic one that gives superhuman strength to the
indomitable Gauls. Without it, they would eventually be defeated by the Romans
who are a hundred times as many and much better armed.

1.2 WHEN A DISHONEST SOOTHSAYER MAKES HIS ENTRANCE
By a stormy night, Prolix, a crafty soothsayer, makes his entrance into the
gaulish village. The Gauls,who already fear that the sky might fall onto their
heads,are easily impressed by his <<surprising>> predictions. Prolix, who sees
a means of being fed for free,settles down in a near clearing, waiting for the
credulous villagers who are fond of his predictions to bring him some food to
<<read>>.He ends up being kidnapped by the Romans who regard him as a means of
convincing the Gauls to leave the village.

1.3 WHEN ASTERIX GOES LOOKING FOR WILD STRAWBERRIES AND OIL
Asterix, who is the only clear-headed person left to face the soothsayer, is
looking for the ingredients which will help Panoramix to recover. Thats why he
has to pick up what he thinks is necessary, here and there, in the woods and
even in the Roman camp.

2 - DIFFERENT TYPES OF ACTION
To collect all the ingredients which will save Getafix from madness, Asterix-
the part you are playing-has different means of action. He can move without
dificulty, and can:

2.1 BUY
Some items can be bought in the gaulish village.They all cost a certain amount
of sesterces.

2.2 SELECT THE INGREDIENTS
Preparations are done on the screen which is left of the village.A cooking pot
cursor automatically appears.It allows you to click on the 3 ingredients you
wish to mix with the mouse or joystick.You can put one ingredient back down by
clicking again on it. Be careful,you can only use three doses of each. Once
the mixture has been done, you can have it tasted either by Getafix or by a
Roman you have captured. In order to do so, you will be asked a question.
Answer by clicking on the left part of the screen with the <<icon-cursor>>
yes(thumb upward), on keyboard, press RETURN , on joystick, press fire-button-
or by clicking on the right part of the screen with the <<icon-cursor no>>
(thumb downwards) - on keyboard press the ESC key, on joystick press right
button. To leave the place of the mixing, press either the ESC key, or the left
ear of the mouse (JOTD: note that doesn't work, right mouse button does).
Haaaaaa, oops, sorry!

2.3 PLAY DICE
You can play dice versus the soothsayer, or versus the Romans in the camp. You
can try to neutralize them to score some points : stand set back from them,
immediately bet an amout of sesterces, knowing that the rule is to score more
points than your opponent.
The soothsayer or the Roman play first. Then comes your turn. If you use the
mouse,shake it in order to shake the dice and click on the right ear to throw.
A double allows you to shake again. In case you gain something, you get your
bet back plus another amount of sesterces.

2.4 GO WILD-BOAR-HUNTING
In some parts of the forest,you can meet wild boars. Avoid being on their way,
or it will cost you life points. On the contrary, try to neutralize them to
score some points: stand set back from their way, face the screen and strike.

2.5 FIGHT THE ROMANS
In some parts of the forest, you can meet a lonely Roman. There is only one
alternative left: either escape or fight. On the other hand, if you happen to
meet a patrol, they will run away without asking questions. If you get to the
entrance of the Roman camp, do not force your way in. Remember you have no
magic potion, you may easily be exhausted. You had better try to distract the
guards attention.

ACTION                       KEYBOARD                        JOYSTICK
to move                   arrow to the left,             push joystick to the
                          right, up or down             left,right, upwards

to jump                   ENTER key                    or downwards <<fire>>
                                                                     button
to bend or pick up        space key                      space key

to buy                    near the shop assistant       near the shop
assistant
                          ENTER key                     ENTER key

to knock down             ENTER key                     <<fire>> button
a wild boar

to play dice              come close and                come close and press
                          press <<ENTER>> key           <<fire>> button

to come into              on the doorstep               on the doorstep
the chiefs house          ENTER key                     <<fire>> button

To fight against the Romans
Asterix points            F1 key                        center by pressing
                                                        <<fire>> button

Asterix gives             F2 key                        to the right by
somebody a slap                                         pressing on the
in the face                                             <<fire>> button

Asterix knocks            F3 key                        downward by pressing
from bottom to top                                      <<fire>> button

Asterix knocks            F4 key                        upwards by pressing
from top to bottom                                      <<fire>> button

4.METERS

4.1 THEIR PLACE
There is a strip at the bottom of the screen, which includes icons on two
lines.
Ist line: from left to right: 9 spaces containing boar-legs symbolize life
points, followed by 6 spaces meant to contain sesterces and 3 spaces in which
the items bought by the player appear.

2nd line: the first space contains:
      - either Getafixs head showing his state (of health)
      - or the characters head whose words appear in the following text.
Then comes a space intended for 6 ingredients.

4.2 THEIR ROLE
Your energy is represented by wild boarlegs that you will have hunted or eaten
in the chiefs house. You can lose some if you are knocked down by fish, or if
you fight Romans and wild boars.
Sesterces can be won by playing dice, and are used for the purchasing of
several items in the Gaulish village. A golden billhook is used as a joker,
because then your energy decreases more slowly.
Another important meter: the druids condition: If you make him drink too many
mixtures,his condition will get worse. You had better capture a Roman that you
can use as a guinea pig.
You have failed once your energy is spent or when the druid is in a terrible
state. You have won once you have succeeded in brewing the only mixture which
can cure the druid, among the twenty or so possible combinations, and once you
have had someone taste it.
