
                               ---------------
			       |ISHAR TRILOGY|
                               ---------------


				   ISHAR I

			   LEGEND OF THE FORTRESS


				   ISHAR 2

			     MESSENGERS OF DOOM

				   
				   ISHAR 3

			  SEVEN GATES OF INFINITY


			    (C) 1995 SILMARILS

	


			     List of passwords 



Liste des mots de passe		  4

ENGLISH				  5

FRANCAIS			 51

DEUTSCH				 99

TARGHAN		   	    145-146

Catalogue / Katalog	        147



				   Page 2




			      PEOPLE OF ISHAR
                              ---------------

                                  Authors 

			    Pascal EINSWEILER 
			      Michel PERNOT

                                Programming

			       Michel PERNOT
			       Andre ROCQUES
			    Louis-Marie ROCQUES
			    Fabrice HAUTECLOQUE
			   Jean-Francois TREVIEN

				 Graphics

			    Pascal EINSWEILER
			       Eric GALAND
			   Guillaume MAGINOT
			Jean-Christophe CHARTER
			    Christophe FAGOT

				  Music
			  Fabrice HAUTECLOQUE

                           Quality assurance
                              Cecile GUYARD

                               Production 
                          Louis-Marie ROCQUES 
                             Andre ROCQUES

                            Box illustration 
                                Tim WHITE




			          Page 3 





LIST OF PASSWORDS



(P=page/Seite, L=line/ligne/Zeile, W=word/mot/Wort)



                    ISHAR 1


P4 L1 W7  = BEGAN		P10 L1 W1 = RECRUIT

P6 L2 W7  = LEFT		P11 L1 W5 = ICON

P7 L1 W5  = USING		P12 L1 W5 = PARTY

P7 L1 W4  = MOVED		P13 L1 W5 = SOME

P8 L1 W2  = TEAM		P13 L1 W3 = OFTEN

P9 L1 W4  = PLAYED		P13 L2 W4 = PLACE

P9 L2 W3  = COLOUR		P14 L3 W1 = SPELLS

P10 L1 W1 = RECRUIT		P14 L1 W3 = LAST



                    ISHAR 2


P6 L2 W2  = DES			P26 L2 W1 = FOR 

P9 L2 W3  = UNE                 P30 L1 W3 = MADE 

P10 L2 W3 = VERS                P31 L2 W1 = CLICK 

P11 L1 W2 = PEUT                P32 L1 W2 = TAKE 

P12 L1 W6 = TEMPS               P33 L1 W2 = TEAM 

P13 L2 W1 = PARTIE              P34 L1 W3 = OUT 

P14 L2 W3 = CINQ                P34 L2 W2 = FIVE 

P15 L1 W3 = TROIS               P35 L1 W4 = KINDS 

P16 L2 W3 = SUR                 P36 L2 W3 = NAME 

P17 L2 W1 = TROUVE              P37 L1 W3 = OFTEN 

P18 L2 W1 = SEUL                P38 L2 W3 = GAME 

Pl9 L3 W3 = SONT                P39 L1 W5 = SPELLS



                    ISHAR 3



ENGLISH/DEUTSCH			FRANCAIS



P10 L1 W2 = SKIP 		P11 L1 W3 = OR

P11 L3 W2 = GOD 		P11 L2 W2 = DES

P13 L1 W2 = CAN 		P13 L3 W1 = PETITS

P13 L2 W3 = SMALL 		P13 L2 W4 = SUR

P14 L1 W2 = TAKE 		P14 L3 W1 = ACTIVE

P14 L1 W5 = REAL 		P14 L2 W3 = CASES

P14 L2 W1 = FIGHT 		P15 L3 W2 = EST

P15 L1 W2 = TEAM 		P15 L2 W2 = VOUS

P15 L2 W2 = WILL 		P16 L2 W5 = SONT

P16 L1 W3 = OUT 		P16 L1 W3 = UNE

P18 L2 W2 = NAME 		P18 L2 W5 = NOM 

P19 L1 W3 = OFTEN 		P19 L2 W1 = TROUVE

P20 L1 W2 = MAKE 		P20 L2 W1 = SEULE

P21 L2 W2 = FOUR		P21 L3 W2 = LES



			          Page 4




ENGLISH


SUMMARY


TECHNICAL DESCRIPTION			pages 6-8



                        ISHAR 1



Azalhgorms tale 			page 9 

Controls 				page 10

Control panel 				page 11	

Panel 					page 12	

Fights / Actions 			pages 13-14 	

Inside buildings 			page 15 

Character sheet 			pages 16-17 

Spells/Potions				pages 18-19



                        ISHAR 2


Controls 				page 20 

Counting rhyme 				page 21 

Control panel 				pages 22-23 

Fights 					page 24 

Team panel				page 25 

Actions					Page 26

Places 					Page 27

Character sheet				pages 28-29

Potions/Spells				pages 30-31




                        ISHAR 3


Controls				page 32 

Main menu 				page 33

Control panel 				pages 34-35

Fights					page 36 

Team panel 				page 37 

Actions					page 38 

Places 					page 39

Character sheet				pages 40-41

Potions/Spells				pages 42-43 

SPELL SYMBOLS				pages 44-46 

THE LEGEND				page 47 

CHRONOLOGY				pages 48-49

COMPUTER PIRACY				page 50



				   Page 5 


TECHNICAL DESCRIPTION
---------------------

ON PC
-----
The configuration your computer needs 
- IBM PC AT or 100% compatible 
- 386 processor or better. 486 processor recommended. 
- 4MB RAM (the game operates in protected mode and uses the whole of your 	computer's memory) 
- VGA graphics card 
- Hard disk essential 
- Mouse 
- Sound Blaster sound card optional

Starting the game from the diskettes 
- Turn on your computer and load DOS. If your computer installs 
Windows at the start, it is best to exit from Windows before installing the 		program. 
- You cannot play from the diskettes 
- Installation on hard disk: 

Put the diskette into A (or B) drive 
Go into drive A (or B) 
Then type INSTALL <source drive><destination drive> (for example: 		INSTALL A: C:), then follow the instructions on the screen. 
To start the game just enter the sub-directory concerned and type START.

Starting on CD ROM 
- Open your CD-ROM drive directory (e.g. D:) 
- Enter: INSTALL <sour&e reader> <target reader> (e.g., INSTALL E: C:) 
- Choose the game which you want to install, a directory will be created on 	your hard disk in order to save the games. 
- In order to launch a game, enter START from the directory of your CD ROM 	and then choose the game to start up. 
-It should be noted that the total memory available is displayed at the bottom 	right of the configuration page of the "Ishar III" game.


				  Page 6



Game configuration 
------------------

At the start of the game a configuration (or set-up) page appears on the
screen. It offers you an optimum configuration which you can alter if you
modify. If you save the configuration this page will no longer appear when 
you start the game again. However, you can access it by pressing the <DEL>
key when the program tells you to.

Below is a configuration example which makes it possible to operate your 
computer with basic, or conventional, memory greater than 600 Ko: 

CONFIG.SYS program: 
DEVICE=C:\DOS\HIMEM.SYS
DEVICE=C:\DOS\EMM386.EXE NOEMS
BUFFERS=15.0
FILES=8
DOS=HIGH,UMB 
LASTDRIVE=E
FCBS=4.0
COUNTRY=033,850;C:\DOS\COUNTRY.SYS

AUTOEXEC.BAT program:
@ECHO OFF
PATH C:\DOS;C:\MOUSE
LH C:\DOS\KEYB FR,,C:\DOS\KEYBOARD.SYS 
LH C:\DOS\MOUSE

These files are examples; they must be modified according to the specific
requirements of your computer (for example, name of the sub-directory for
MOUSE) 

and various command lines to be added (CD ROM driver essential).
If you do not wish to change the configuration of your computer, there is
always the possibility of creating a bootable floppy disk which includes 
these two programs, and to initialise your computer with this floppy disk.
If you use a version of DOS which is 6.0 or more recent, you can launch 
MEMMAKER in order to optimise the system.

IN CASE OF TECHNICAL PROBLEMS

You can contact us by telephone on 0171 372 7544 from Monday to Friday 
between 1pm and 5pm. 

			Page 7


ON AMIGA/AMIGA 1200
-------------------
- If you play on diskette, insert the diskette A in the drive, then turn 
on the computer.

- If you play on hard disk (only Ishar III), intall as follows: 

Insert diskette A in the DF0 drive
Click twice on the A disk icon to display its contents 
Click on the INSTALL icon
A screen will then be displayed on which you must enter the following

two items of information:

Opposite VOLUME: indicate the name of the partition on which the
game is to be installed (DH0 by default)

Opposite DRAWER: the name of the directory (for example "Ishar3")
WARNING! You must have 1MB of graphics memory (chip memory) to
be able to play the game on the hard disk.
Special Case
------------
If you have an Amiga 1200 or an Amiga 4000 with a hard disk and you 
are using the version designed for Amiga 500/600, commute the graphics 		
mode of the boot menu (accessible by pressing both mouse buttons at 
RESET) in "ORIGINAL" mode (to start on hard disk only).

Problems specific to Amiga
--------------------------
If the game screen appears slightly out of place and smaller than normal, 
reset the overscan (preference Workbench) on the default mode, then click 
on USE (to keep the previously-saved setings). 

				Page 8


				ISHAR 1

			    AZALHGORMS TALE


Azalhgorm took a deep breath and began his tale.
"This land was once called Arborea. Morgoth, Lord of Evil and Chaos, decided
to make Arborea his own. His dark powers soon subdued the land. But Jarel, 
Prince of the Elves fought against this evil-succesful in his quest for the 
magic crystals of Harmony) he and his faithful companions finally destroyed 
Morgoth in an unforgettable battle (*).

Jarels companions are still alive and their names are engraved in everyones 
memory...Akeer, Olbar, Zach, Irvan, Thorm and Jon the Alchemist.

After his victory Jarel became ruler of the whole land, which he renamed 
Kendoria. Under the leadership of Jarel and a wise Elven government the many
peoples of Kendoria lived health and wealth.

Sadly Jarel was killed in a hunting accident and as his succesors struggled
violently for power anarchy spread through the whole land. Taking advantage 
of the troubled situation people of many different races crossed into 
Kendoria from nearby, poorer lands. Many were traders or farmers...but some 
were adventurers and mercenaries. Such a one was Krogh...a shady and 
powerful figure... "

Azalhgorm paused. He was troubled by these memories of the past...he coughed
slightly and his deep, low voice echoed once again...

"Krogh has grown rich and powerful and built a temple on the Kingdoms borders. 
The temple is called "Ishar" which means Unknown in the Elven tongue. Krogh 
is evil and like Morgoth in the past, threatens Kendoria. his powers are 
great...he seeks the return of darkness. Leave now for Ishar and regain the 
throne of Jarel. "

It was already dark. I could barely see Azalhgorms face as, feeling puzzled, 
I bid him farewell and began my long journey to the mysterious land of 
Kendoria. 

				  Page 9


USER INTERFACE:
---------------

- MOUSE: The game can be completely controlled with the mouse. Use the left
mouse button to select an item, and the right mouse button to cancel the 
selected action or close the current menus.

- JOYSTICK: You can move Me arrow on the screen with the joystick. The fire
button acts like the left mouse button. The <ALT> key works like the right 
mouse button.

- KEYBOARD: The numeric pad keys (1 to 9) are similar to the mouse controls.
The SHIFT key (used to write in upper case) works like the left mouse 
button, the ALT key like the right button.The F1 to F10 keys activate the 
ACTION and ATTACK options for the 5 characters.
The CONTROL key used with the numeric pad 
keys allows you activate the following options:
   * Open the Tactical Panel with the 7 key.
   * Open the Save Menu with the 9 key.
   * Move on the 3D screen with the keys 1 to 6, 
just like the six directions on the control panel.

GAME SCREEN ACTIONS
-------------------

- To pick up a visible item, just click on it. The mouse pointer will then 
take the form of the item. You can place it directly within a character's 
inventory by clicking on the characters face, or by clicking on his name 
(displays the character sheet).

- To use an item on another object (a key on a door, for example), select 
the item on the character sheet and move it to the place you want to use it,
then confirm by clicking on the left mouse button.

	TO QUIT THE GAME: Press <CONTROL> X.
	PAUSE KEY: Press on the <ESC> key.


				    Page 10


CONTROL PANEL
-------------

MOVES:
------

A character is moved using the directional arrows (5 to 10). You can move 
forward (6), move to the right (7) and to the left (5), turn 45° right (10) 
and left (8), or move backwards (9).

The compass (2) displays the current picture orientation.Some type of terrain 
is impassable, like water, high bushes and dense forest. The name of the area 
your party is currently exploring is displayed on the scroll (1).

TACTICS:
--------

You can alter the tactical disposition of your party. To do this, click on 
the small box (3). You will then see a 5 X 5 board with small symbols 
representing each character in the party (See 14 on next page). Select the 
character's symbol and place it on the board.The characters standing on the
top squares of the board will be to the front of the team. They will also be
first during battles. The characters at the back will have better protection
(if no one attacks you from behind!), but they will not be able to fight in 
close combat, unless they are equipped with throwing weapons (see "COMBATS").

To move in single file, you must place the character's symbols on the board along a vertical line. The character at the front of the team will be attacked first in battles, 
and he is the only character able to fight in close combat.

SAVING A GAME:
--------------

To load or save a game, click on the disk icon (4). Follow the instructions 
displayed on the screen. You will have to insert a formatted disk. You can 
save as many games as you want.

AMIGA users will have to wait a few seconds after inserting a disk, while 
the drive reads the data.

HARD DISK users saved games will be directly saved in the same directory or 
subdirectory as the game. 


				   Page 11



PANEL
-----

A team may include a maximum of five characters. You begin the game with 
only one.

The name of each character is displayed at the bottom of the screen (16). 
His face appears in the medallion (13). If there is no character, the 
medallion displays a rock face (21).Note the small symbol (14) displayed at
the left bottom of the screen, representing the character in the tactical 
panel (see "TACTIC").

The bar (15) shows hit points level. Watch this carefully, because the 
character dies when this bar reaches zero. In that case, a skull appears in
the box (22). You can pick up the items carried by the dead character using
his character sheet, as long as you stay in the same place. As soon as you 
move, the dead character and his possesions will be lost forever. If all 
characters are killed, the game is over.

When you click on the medallion, you can open two other windows.The first 
one displays the following information:

- Physiology: The boxes (17) show the player's condition after a spell has 
been cast on him (see "SPELLS SYMBOLS").

- Spells: When a spell has been prepared - or written in runes (See "CAST A 
SPELL" in the "ACTIONS" section), the spell symbol is displayed in the left 
box (18). To cast this spell, just click on it.

- Items held in the hand (box 19). You can trade or place items directly 
with these icons (See "CHARACTER SHEET"). The second window (20) displays 
vital inforrnation: physical and mental condition, experience and money.
Physical condition affects combat performances. This level goes down as you 
move. When it reaches zero, the hit points start to go down. To raise the 
level, you must sleep, eat, or drink special potions.

Mental condition affects effectivity and length of spells. You can regain 
points when you sleep, or by drinking special potions.


				   Page 12


COMBAT
------

All battles are played in real time. To hit your opponent(s) click on the 
"ATTACK" box (12). The colour of the box changes during the attack. When the
colour returns to the original colour, your character may hit the opponent 
again.

The character strikes the opponent(s) with the weapon he is currently 
holding. Depending on the weapon, the character can hit faster or slower. A
two handed weapon is slower than a single hand weapon, but it is also more
effective, causing more damage to the enemy. If the character holds a 
different weapon in each hand, he will hit twice as fast as if he only had
one weapon in hand. If the character holds no weapon, he will attack with
his fists.

To strike an opponent, the character must beat the front of the party (See 
"TACTICS"). The characters behind the leader can use throwing weapons. You
can easily recognize these by the small lines drawn on them. They symbolize
speed. To throw a weapon, click on ATTACKER. The mouse pointer changes. You
must then select the opponent you want to strike. The enemy chosen can be
quite far away.

Hits are shown on the screen by a small blood "puddle", in which the damage
points are displayed. Damage varies according to many factors :the weapon's
power, strength and agility level (especially for thrown weapons), the 
character's weapons skills, opponent's constitution...

ACTIONS
-------

To perform a specific action, click on the "ACTION" icon (11) for the 
selected character. A window opens and displays the following options:

  - GIVE ITEM: The character sheet is displayed. Choose the item and click 
on the character receiving the item.

  - GIVE MONEY: This option is similar to the Give Item option, but you must
indicate the amount of money to give with the "+" and "-" signs, then click
on the "COIN" icon.

  - KILL: Select the character you want to kill. WARNING: The character's 
psy-chology is important when you perform this action: if one of your 
characters is a good friend of the victim (See "ALIGNMENT"), he may himself 
kill the murderer, and so on! You could end up with most of your characters 
being murdered by each other!

  - DISMISS: The other characters in the team vote if you want to dismiss a
character. This vote depends on the level of friendship with the character 
you want to dis-miss (See: ALIGNMENT). A dismissed character is taken out of
the game, and you will not be able to recruit him again.

Dismissing a character is less risky than killing him. But sometimes you 
will be in a situation where you can not dismiss a character, and you cannot
pick up the items he is carrying Still, you may often have to dismiss 
characters during the game. 

				      Page 13

- RECRUIT: it is impossible to recruit all the characters you meet in this 
game. Just as when you want to dismiss a character, the other members of 
your team will vault Be careful, because even traitors could join your team.
Their usual behaviour is I disappear suddenly whith some of your possesions.

- CAST SPELL: This action may only be performed by specific character classes
(clerics, wizards...). Choose a spell: some of them are automatic (radar), 
but most of them require you to spot the opponent on the screen (combat 
spells) or the character within the party (protection spells). The mouse 
pointer then changes to a torch.

You can also prepare a spell using runes, with the option "RUNES". It will 
then be available in the spell icon (18).

To cast a spell, a character must have enough psychic energy. If his psychic
energy level is too low, the spell will have no effect. The efficiency and 
length of the spell also depends on intelligence level (wizards) and wisdom
level (clerics).

There are about thirty available spells, available for different levels (See
"SPELLS DECSRIPTION"). You can learn these spells during magical training 
courses(See "TRAINING").

  - LOCKPICK: the mouse pointer turns into a lockpick. You must click on 
till lock you wish to open.

  - ORIENTATION: the character will give you information about the area you 
are exploring.

  - FIRST AID: Select the character to be healed. A character cannot be 
healed twice with this option, unless he has been injured since the last 
healing.

The efficiency of the "LOCKPICK", ORIENTATION" and "FIRST AID" options 
depend on the character's skill level in each specific field.

ALIGNMENT:
----------

The relationship between the characters is very important in the game: they 
vote to dismiss or recruit other characters, they can kill each other, and 
sometimes even refuse to fight against members of their own races. This 
relationship is based on the traditional RPG (Role Playing Games) alignment
 tables (good and bad). The alignment of a character depends on his race 
and his class (for example, dwarfs are not very friendly with elves).

You can gather information about your character's alignments by visiting 
"psycho analysts".


				  Page 14

 
INSIDE BUILDINGS
----------------

TRADERS:
--------

Click on the "Buy" icon. A list of the available products is displayed, 
with their cost. Select the item you want to buy, and click on the 
character box (the character who is buying), or click on the character 
name to open his character sheet. If the character does not have enough
money, the operation is automatically canceled.

TAVERNS:
--------

In the taverns, you have a choice of 4 different actions:

- LISTEN: This option allows you to gather useful information.

- RECRUIT: The tavern is the one of the best places to recruit characters. 
Select the character you want to recruit. The members of your team then 
vote. The result depends on this vote. If your team agrees, the character 
will join them.

- EAT: You must buy a meal for the whole party. If there is not enough money,
then the team will not eat. If so, the food will be shared between the 
characters.

If a character has not enough money, his share will be paid by the other 
members of the party, starting with the first character on the team panel.

- SLEEP: This option is similar to the Eat option. You must rent a room for 
the whole party.

HOUSES:
-------

You can meet various characters in the houses. Most of the time, they will 
give you precious information (though often you will have to pay for it!). 
Sometimes you will find useful items you can pick up. Just click on the item
 you want to take, and give it to one of your characters.

The "Psycho analysts" will give you their advice for a regular fee. The 
payment system is similar to the tavern options.

TRAINING:
---------

Training is essential to reach higher skill levels. There are five different
training courses: strength, agility, intelligence, wisdom and spells.

Select the character you wish to train. If he doesn't have enough money to 
pay for the training, or doesn't have the necessary skills, the training is 
automatically canceled.

For spells training, you must choose the spell you want to learn after 
selecting the character. This type of training is only available to certain
classes (see "CAST SPELL").


				   Page 15


CHARACTER SHEET
---------------

Each character in your party has his own character sheet. To open the 
character sheet, simply click on the character's name (16).

CHARACTER DESCRIPTION (box 23):
-------------------------------

The character description is displayed on three sheets. To browse through 
the path click on the "BOOKS" icon (27). The complete character description
includes: 

   - the character's identity: his name, race and class 
   - the character's current level and experience level
   - the character's health: physical & mental energy and vitality.
   - the character's attributes and skills. The skill level determines the
     effectiveness of a character (lox: a strong character will cause more
     damage to the opponent during combat, a robust character will be more
     resistant).

These parameters change during the game, depending on combat, and your 
successes and failures. There are eight skills available in the game: 
lockpick, orientation, first aid, foreign languages (read/spoken), shooting
(bows/crossbow) and weapons skills (one handed/two handed/weapons). The 
three first skills are used through the "ACTION" menu (11).

MONEY (17):
-----------

The "MONEY" icon (31) displays the amount of money owned by the characters
in the party. When you click on this icon, you open a "money management" 
menu. With the 3-arrows icon, you can easily share your money between the 
characters in your party. You can also give a specific amount of money to 
one of the characters. 

Use the "+" and "-" signs to enter the correct amount, then click on the 
"COIN" icon. The mouse pointer will turn into a coin. Click with this coin
on the character receiving the money.

				   Page 16


ITEMS (box 24):
---------------

A character often has some items when he first joins the party. When you 
find a new item, you can place it in one of the nine boxes. Some items can
be regrouped in a single box: food (5 maximum), potions (10 maximum) and 
arrows (20 maximum). In this case, the number of items is displayed at the
bottom right of the box.

To select an item, click on it, or, if you hold regrouped items, select the
number of items you want to use.You will then be able to:

   - drop (destruction) the item by putting it in the "TRASH" icon (30).
   - see a description of an item by holding the mouse button down, and 
     moving the item onto "VIEW" icon (29).   
   - eat and drink by placing any food item or potion on the "ABSORB" icon
     (28). Note: this icon can also be used for blowing. When a character 
     eats, he regains vitality points.

   - equip the character with some items. You must place the clothes, 
     annours and helmets on the character's body (25).
   - place the item in your hands. Place it on the "HANDS" icon (26) and 
     click. If the item is cumbersome (two handed swords), the second hand
     is shaded and cannot be used.

   - give the item to another character (on his character sheet). Click on
     the name of the character receiving the item, then place it in the 
     character's inventory.
   - put the item directly in another character's hands. Place the item on
     the character's "HANDS" icon (19) and click on the mouse.

If you click on an item when you are already holding one, the exchange is 
automatic.


MAKING POTIONS:
---------------

To create a potion, you must have the magic transparent flask (there is only
one in the game!), to use as a container. Mix the ingredients by clicking 
the different potions you own on the magic flask. This flask is reusable 
after drinking its contents. Read the magical recipes book at the end of 
this manual carefully, because some mixtures may have very strange 
results...

				  Page 17


SPELLS DESCRIPTION
------------------

Spells will last a certain length of time, depending on the character's 
magical powers (See "CAST SPELL"). There are ten different levels for spell
casters (l to 10). Some spells are only available to certain classes. You
can learn new spells by training.

CLERIC SPELLS (also available for rangers and paladins):
--------------------------------------------------------

- Healing (Level l, 3 and 4): this spell will raise the number of hit points
of the se-lected character.

- Protection (Level l, 3 and 5): This spell gives protection during combat.
Another spell allows you to protect the whole party (Level 6). 

- Sleep (Level 1): Your opponent will fall asleep.

- Cure poison (Level 2): This spell cures if the character has been infected
by a potion or bitten by an enemy.

- Repulse (Level 8): This spell will send all your opponents to hell. 

- Dissolve (Level 6): turns one of your team into a gas cloud. 
He can pass through opponents without any injury. 

- Attack spells: Flame Wall (Level 8) and Psychic Hammer (Level 6).

- Inversion (Level 4): the alignment of the character is reversed. A friend
becomes an opponent, the enemy turns into a companion.

- Confusion (Level 3): The enemy loses all control. He does not remember 
who's side he is on, and hits randomly at friends and enemies. 

- Invisible Party (Level 5). 

- Radar (Level 3).

- Resurrection (Level 10): With this spell, a dead character can be brought
back to life.

WIZARD SPELLS (also available to Monks and Priests):

- Attack Spells: 

   * Burning Hands (Level 1), 
   * Magic Missile (Level 2), 
   * Fireball (Level 3), 
   * Flame Spirit (Level 10), 
   * Psychic Hand (Level 9), 
   * Blindness (Level 9) 
   * Binding (Level 5). 

- Lightning: This combat spell hits all the enemy. 

- Charm (Level 1): this spell is useful to gain some information without 
having to pay for it. 

- Invisibility (Level 4): A character can still be wounded, even if he is 
invisible.

- Mental Shield (Level 6): This spell gives protection against magic spells
cast by your opponents.

- Regeneration (Level 7): This spell raises the number of hit points for a 
certain amount of time.

- Invisibility Detection (Level 4): This spell allows you to see any 
invisible enemies. 

- Invulnerability (Level 6).

				    Page 18


                              MAGIC RECIPES BOOK 
                              ------------------
                            FOR THE NOVICE WIZARDS
                            ----------------------

Given: 

		A = toad eye			B = salamander oil

		C = trapdoor spider web		D = dried mistletoe

		E = rat brain			F  = gargoyle claws

		G = turtle slobber		H = powdered dragon bones



Main recipes (you can mix the ingredients in any order)
-------------------------------------------------------

		- "Schloumz": 1 dose B + 1 dose D + 2 doses F 

		- "Olmaq": 2 doses D + 2 doses E 

		- "Clopatos": 1 dose B + 1 dose D + 1 dose E + 1 dose F

		- "Exqiz": 2 doses B + 1 dose B + 1 dose E 

		- "Foklim": 1 dose A + 1 dose B + 1 dose D 

		- "Drouli": 1 dose B + 1 dose C + 2 doses D + 1 dose E 

		- "Izdolia": 1 dose B + 1 dose C + 1 dose E + 1 dose H 

		- "Trillix": 2 doses B + I dose D + 1 dose E + 1 dose F 

		- "Worgaz": 2 doses B + 1 dose D + 1 dose F + 1 dose H 

		- "Zarklug": 2 doses B + 1 dose D + 1 dose E + 1 dose G 

		- "Krakos": 2 doses E + 1 dose F + 1 dose H 

		- "Bymph": 2 doses B + 1 dose D 

		- "Ghoslam ": 1 dose B + 1 dose D + 1 dose E 

		- "Lhwyxz": 1 dose B + I dose D + 1 dose G 

		- "Arbool": 1 dose A + 1 dose B + 1 dose D + 1 dose H 




				    Page 19



				    ISHAR 2


				   CONTROLS
                                   --------

The game is designed to operate entirely by mouse. The left hand mouse 
button is used to select and the right hand button to cancel the current 
operation and close the menus selected. The keyboard can also be used. 
Thus the numeric pad (figures 1 to 9) emulate the movements of the mouse. 
The <SHIFT> key (for typing capital letters) replaces the left-hand mouse 
button and the <ALT> key the right-hand mouse button. Keys F1 to F5 emulate
the "Action" icons, and keys F6 to F 10 emulate the fight icons.

The <CONTROL> key combined with the number keys enables you to do the 
following:

   * Access the tactical panel with the 7
   * Access the save menu with the 9
   * Move about the 3-dimensional landscape using 1 to 6, according 
     to the 6 directions on the control panel.

There is a joystick emulation, but it is not recommended. The game lever is
 used to move the arrow on the screen. The shoot button replaces the 
left-hand mouse button and the <ALT> key the right-hand mouse button.

				      Page 20



COUNTING RHYME
--------------

 for use by the Clever but mbitious Adventurer

	5	Dwilgelindildong
	5	scattered over each Land
	5	holy fragments, foundations of Humanity
	5	reunited by their Daughter without Light
	5	then, who will become only One


	4	Dwilgelindildong
	4 	re-written by the hands of the Ancients 
	4	with 2 to roam the Seas
	4	which will lead to the Devil's Lair

	3	Dwilgelindildong
	3	symbols, ornaments so as not to offend
	3	gifts for the Servants of Goodness

	2	Dwilgelindildong
	2	druids, one of dust and one of stone

	1	Dwilgelindildong ... the Only One ... Shandar

					
				    Page 21


THE CONTROL PANEL
-----------------

MOVEMENTS
---------

Movements are made using the directional arrows (5 to 10). You can
move forward (6), sideways to the right (10) and to the left (8), 
make quarter turn to the right (7) and to the left (5) or move backwards
(9).

The compass (2) indicates the direction in which you are facing. Some places
are impassable, such as water and high bushes. The panel at the top of the 
screen shows the name of the place through which you are travelling.


				   Page 22


TACTICS
-------

You can change the tactical positionning of the characters. To do so, click
on the small frame (3). A 5 x 5 chequerboard appears with small symbols
(Roman numbers), representing each character in the team - you will find
these numbers at the bottom left of each Character box. Choose the desired
symbol and place it in one of the squares of the chequerboard.

The characters placed in the highest boxes will be at the front of the 
group. They will be the first to receive blows. The characters placed 
behind will be fairly well protected (except in the case of attack from
behind); but they will not be able to fight hand-to-hand unless they have a
throwing weapon (see "Fights' section). To move in single file, place the
symbols on the same vertical line; the character at the front of the group
then receives all the blows and is the only one who can fight hand-to-hand.

To move in a line abreast, place the symbols on the same horizontal line.
In this specific case, all the characters receive blows and can fight on the
same level. 

LOADING AND SAVING
------------------

By clicking on the diskette (4) icon you will access a menu with four 
choices:

- Save a game in progress: follow the instructions on the screen. 
The program will ask you to insert a previously- formatted diskette. 
You can save as often as you want to.

- Load a saved game: You must enter the name of the saved game 
and insert the save diskette in the drive.

- Start a new game.

- Re-use an old team from the game "Ishar, Legend of the Fortress": 
insert a save diskette used in that program into the drive. The game 
will then start at the beginning with the characters of this new team. 
The characters will retain their characteristics but will lose their 
possessions and magic spells. Sometimes, the characters' experience 
levels will be slightly altered to suit those of Ishar II. 

WARNING:
--------

On Amiga you will have to wait a few seconds after inserting a diskette to
give the drive time to read it. On a hard disk, you save directly into the
sub-directory of the game.

				    Page 23 


FIGHTS
------

Fights take place in real time. The fight panel (11) groups together the
fight icons of each player with their active weapon. These icons are 
arranged in a quincunx (4 at the corners of the square and 1 in its 
centre) and represent from left to right the five characters in the team, 
identified by their Roman numeral. To make a character strike, click 
on the corresponding fight icon.

The icon will change colour during the attack. You can strike again when the
icon has returned to its initial colour.

Blows are struck with the weapon the character is holding. Their speed will
vary from weapon to weapon. A two-handed weapon is slower than a one-handed
weapon but causes more harm. If the player has a weapon in each hand he will
strike twice as fast as with a single weapon. The weapon used will then 
change in the icon at each blow. Without a weapon, the character will strike
with his fists.

To strike an adversary you have to be in the front line (see the section on
"The Control Panel: Tactics"). The characters placed behind can however use
throwing weapons which can be recognised by little lines symbolising speed.
To throw these weapons? click on the fight icon. The cursor will change. 
Then select the adversary to be hit who can be some distance away. Hits are
represented on the picture by a small patch of blood showing the damage 
points, that is, the life points the victim has lost. This damage depends on
several parameters: the power of the weapon, strength, agility (throwing 
weapons in particular), skill in weaponry, the adversary's constitution, 
etc.


				 Page 24 

THE TEAM PANELS
---------------

The team consists of a maximum of 5 characters. At the start of the game, 
you will have only one character. The name of each player is written at the
bottom (16). His face appears in the medallion (13). If the box is 
unoccupied, the medallion contains a stone face (21). Note the Roman number
(14) at the bottom left which represents the character in the tactical 
table (see "Control Panel" section). The bar (15) represents the level of
life points. Watch it carefully, because the character will die when it 
reaches zero. A skull-will then appear in the frame. You can recover the 
possessions shown in the character sheet of a character who has died if you
do not move elsewhere. The slightest movement will cause the deceased 
player to disappear. When all the players are dead the game is over. The 
four icons (12) give access to the management and information panels which
will appear in place of the character's face. By re-clicking a second time
on these icons, the face will reappear in the medallion.

- The first icon opens a menu which suggests different actions (see 
"Actions" section below).

- The second icon reiterates the main parameters (17): physical and psychic
levels, experience, money. Physical fitness affects fighting performance. 
This level drops as the character travels. When it reaches zero, the life 
points gradually decrease. To raise it, the character must sleep, eat or 
drink reviving potions. Psychic powers influence the effects and duration 
of magic spells. You can recover psychic points by sleeping or drinking 
certain potions.

- The third icon shows the hands (box 18) and the different physiological 
states of the player (box 19). These states are caused by magic spells which
have been cast over the character by which he is still affected (see 
"Spells" section). Any objects which may be held appear in the hands. You 
can exchange or place objects directly from these windows (see section on 
"The Character Sheet").

- The fourth and last icon (Red dot, if operational) is used to cast magic 
spells (20). Only certain classes (scholars, magicians, druids) can cast 
spells. Select a spell from the table. Some can be cast directly but most 
will wait for you to point to the character on the screen (attack spells) 
or among your companions (defence spells) - the cursor will then change 
into a target. By using the two arrows on the sides you can change the 
spells table (a choice of 3 tables: defence spells, attack spells or various
spells). The two numbers under the arrows respectively indicate the 
character's psychic energy and the level of the spell selected. There are 
about thirty spells of different levels. They are acquired when the 
character changes levels (see"Spells" section). 


				     Page 25


ACTIONS
-------

To carry out a specific action, click on the 'Act" icon of the character
concerned. Five actions are offered:

- Enrol: The cursor becomes a hand. Point it at the character to be enrolled
 The best place for enrolling is the inn, but you can also meet characters 
worth enrolling in the three dimensional landscape the players then give 
their votes, resulting from how sympathetic they feel towards the candidate
(see section on "The Character Sheet: ALIGNMENT"). Warning: Traitors can 
sometimes infiltrate a team.

They disappear without trace, sometimes stealing things.

- Dismiss: As with enrolling, the other members of the team give their vote.
A dismissed player disappears from the game and cannot be enrolled again. 
Dismissal is less dangerous than assassination, but is not always practical
and the character's possessions cannot berecovered. In the course of the 
game you will often need to get rid of a character.

- Assassinate: Select the team member to be assassinated. Be careful, 
because the psychology of the characters comes into play: 

if one of the companions has a lot of sympathy for the victim (see section
on "The Character Sheet: ALIGNMENT"), he may in turn kill the murderer. As
this reasoning continues, you could thus bring about a whole series of 
killings.

- First aid: Select the person to be helped. An individual who has been 
given first aid cannot receive it a second time unless he has been struck 
again in the interim. The effectiveness of first aid depends on the player's
level of skill in this subject.

- Map: A map of the whole archipelago appears on the screen. By selecting 
one of the islands, you will obtain a detailed map of it. At the start of 
the game, the map is incomplete. It is up to you to find the missing pieces.
Harbours are indicated. The team is represented on the map by a flashing 
dot. 

				     Page 26



PLACES
------

SHOPS
-----

There are three kinds of trader: animal traders, arms dealers and general 
merchants where you can find food, potions and various ustensils. Click on
the "Buy" icon and various goods with their respective prices will appear.
Select the object you want and confirm by clicking on the face of the 
character who is buying or in the character sheet by clicking on his name.
If the buyer does not have enough money, the operation will be cancelled.

INNS 
----

You are offered four options.

   - Listen: You can pick up information.
   - Enrol: The inn is the best place for enrolling. Select the torso of 
     the person you want to enrol. Your choice will be confirmed or rejected
     by the vote of other team members.

- Eat: You have to pay for a full meal for the whole team. If all the 
players together do not have enough money, none of them can eat. Otherwise,
the sum will be deducted from the companions in equal shares. If one of them
does not have enough the balance will be made up by his companions according
to the order in which they are arranged on the team panel.

- Sleep: The same principle as for eating. A room is taken for the whole 
team.

HOUSES
------

Here, the team's control panels do not work. Only the character sheets can
be selected. You will find various types of people here. Usually, they will
give you valuable information or suggest "Missions" to you.

Sometimes you can pick up objects Click on them and place them with one of
the characters.

HARBOURS
--------

To board a boat, look for a landing stage. Here you will find a boatman in
a boat. Board the boat. The boatman will take you to a ship. A map will then
appear on the screen. Select the harbour you wish to sail to. 


				     Page 27



THE CHARACTER SHEET
-------------------

Each character in the team has his own sheet. Access it by clicking on his
name (16).


CHARACTER STATISTICS (frame 23)
-------------------------------

This covers three pages which you can turn using the "Book" icons. 
(27), and contains:

- Identity: name, race, class (profession)
- The character's level and experience
- Degree of fitness: physical, psychic, vitality
- Team cohesion or ALIGNMENT: We have shown that relationships play an 
  important part: votes on enrolment or dismissal, serialkillings, refusal
  to give first aid These are based on the ("alignment" tables. These 
  alignments depend on the tendency to good or evil and the sympathies and
  antipathies between races (e.g. dwarfs dislike elves). Team cohesion 
  summarises the different alignments between the characters in the team.

- Characteristics and skills, which influence the player's actions 
(e.g. a strong person will cause the enemy more damage, a robust person will
withstand blows better).

These parameters develop in the course of the game in relation to fights, 
successes and set-backs. There are seven skills: lock-picking, perception, 
first aid, shooting (bows and arrows and crossbows), weaponry skills 
(one-handed weapons, two-handed weapons, throwing weapons).

MONEY
-----

The "Money" icon (31) shows the sum of money held. By clicking on it you 
will access a money management menu. By selecting the icon with 3 arrows, 
all the sums of money are evenly distributed among the different members of
the team. You can also give a certain sum to another character: use the "+"
and "-" marks to define the slims then click on the ~'coin" icon which will
take the place of the cursor. Then validate it on the character concerned.
The "All" icon selects the total sum which the player owns. The "0" icon 
returns the sum back to zero. 


				     Page 28 


OBJECTS (frame 24)
------------------

A character often possesses a few objects at the outset. When you find an 
object you can place it in one of the 9 boxes. Certain objects can be 
grouped together in the same box: food (maximum = 10), potions 
(maximum = 10), arrows (maximum = 20). The number of objects is then shown 
at the bottom right of the box. Select an object by clicking on it or in the
case of objects grouped together, take them all by clicking on the number. 

Then you can:

- Destroy it by draging it on the "DUSTBIN" icon (30) and clicking. 
- Identify it by draging it to the "See" icon (29) and clicking.
- Eat and drink by validating the items on the Reabsorb icon(28). This 
  will have an affect on the physical and vitality points of the player.
- Dress your character by placing clothes, armour and helmets on the torso 
  (25). There are clothes for both men and women.
- Handle objects by clicking on them in the character inventory boxes or 
  on-screen and draping them to the "Hands" icon (26).
  If the object is large (2-handed weapons), the second hand will be dimmed 
  and cannot be used.
- Place it in another character sheet by clicking on the name of the 
  recipient and placing the object in one of his boxes.
- Place it directly into the hand of a team member by validating on the 
  "Hands" icon (18) of the character concerned.
- If you select one object after another, exchanges will be made 
  automatically.

				    Page 29



POTIONS
-------

To create a potion you must have a magic cauldron (there is only one in the
 game!), which will serve as a mixing bowl. Make your mixtures by placing 
the different potions on the cauldron. The cauldron can be reused after its
contents have been absorbed. Consult the magic recipes shown below, because
certain mixtures can have rather strange consequences ...

MAGIC RECIPES
-------------


		A= Dandelion puree		B = Oil of salamander

		C = Trapdoor spider's web 	D = Dried mistletoe

		E = Rat's brain 		F - Gargoyle's claws

		G = Black mushrooms (*)		H = Edelweiss



	"Bulkal": 1 dose of B + 1 dose of F 

	"Schloumz": 1 dose of B + 1 dose of D + 2 doses of F 

	"Dzarna": 2 doses of B + 1 dose of C + 1 dose of E + 1 dose of F 			"Kloug": 1 dose of B + 1 dose of C + 1 dose of D + 1 dose of E + 1 		dose of F 
	"Clopatos": 1 dose of B + 1 dose of D + 1 dose of E + 1 dose of F 			"Gato":       3 doses of B + 1 dose of G 
	"Ghoslam": 1 dose of B + 1 dose of D + 1 dose of E 

	"Arbool": 1 dose of A + 1 dose of B + 1 dose of D + 1 dose of H 			"Mildong": 1 dose of F + 1 dose of H 
	"Potaic": 1 dose of C + 1 dose of E 	

	"Rhumxy": 2 doses of B + 1 dose of D + 1 dose of E 

	"Jablou": 1 dose of A + 1 dose of D + 2 doses of E 	

	"Humbolg": 1 dose of B + 1 dose of C + 1 dose of G 

	"Oklum": 1 dose of D + 1 dose of H 

	"Flukjl": 3 doses of E


		(*): 	White mushrooms are poisonous. 


				    Page 30


SPELLS
------

There are about thirty spells corresponding to different levels of 
experience. Only three classes can cast spells: scholars, magicians and 
druids. Spells are specific to each of these classes. By increasing 
experience level, the character acquires higher level spells. The 
effectiveness of a spell (impact, duration), depends on the experience 
level of the spell-caster. The higher the level, the more powerful the spell
will be. Casting spells requires a degree of psychic , energy. If the 
character does not have enough, the spell will have no effect. The more 
powerful the spell, the more energy it will consume. 

DESCRIPTION OF SPELLS
---------------------

   * Defence spells (in order of level, from lowest to highest):

- Healing (scholar/druid): increases the life points of injured players.
- Protection: physical (scholar/magician) limits injury caused in fights, 
  and psychic (magician) protects against spells cast by enemies. There are
  overall spells which protect the whole team. They are higher level spells.
- Specific care (scholar/druid): against poisoning and blindness. 
- Protection against fire (druid). 
- Resurrection of a player (scholar).
- Metamorphosys to change form (magician). 
   * Attack spells:
Strikes in order of levels: 

   * the fireball (magician), powerless against characters 
Impervious to fire (dragons), the spiritual hammer (scholar), 
the flaming hand (magician), the ice-cloud (magician) recommended against
fire creatures, and the spirit of flame (magician) which is the most 
powerful spell. 
- Strike against all enemies present: lightning (magician) and fire-storm
(magician), powerless against fire creatures.
- Specific actions against enemies: sleep (magician), blinding (scholar), 
paralysis (scholar/magician).
- Inversions: traditional inversion (scholar/magician) which changes a 
character's natural inclinations (friend/enemy), and the "turn undead" 
special (Magician) which drives only the living dead mad. 

   * Specific spells:

- The paranormal: "Paranormal" detection (magician) indicates that you are 
in an accursed place. Exorcism (scholar) enables the curse to be lifted from
the place.
- Telepathic reconnaissance (scholar) indicates the characteristics of the 
character encountered. 
- The magic key (magician) opens all doors.
- The change of timescale (magician) allows you to change your temporal plan
in the middle of a fight for a certain time. You can thus raise your life 
points and prepare your strategy.
- Teleportation (magician) is used with "memo-telep" (magician) which 
records in advance the teleportation arrival point.


				    Page 31



				    ISHAR 3


INTERFACE
---------
The game is designed to be played entirely with the mouse. The left button
is used to select, and the right button to cancel the current operation and
close selected menus.

KEYBOARD SHORTCUTS
------------------

The F1-F5 keys emulate the "Action" icons, and the F6-F10 keys the combat 
icons. 

The numeric keypad is used to:

	* access the Tactical panel by pressing 9.
	* access the Save menu by pressing 7.
	* move in the 3D environment by pressing keys 1-6, according
	to the 6 movements on the control panel.

	TO QUIT THE GAME: Press <CONTROL>X.
	PAUSE KEY Press <P>.


				   Page 32



MAIN MENU
---------

To skip the introduction, press <ESC>.

After the introduction,

Depending on the type of computer you have, you might be given a choice of
languages (French, English, German...). Click on the flag of the desired 
language. 

From the main menu, you can:

	- load a previously saved game: follow the on-screen
          instructions.

If you're playing from the hard disk, the games will be saved directly 
into your sub-directory; if you're playing from floppy disks, you will 
have to insert a formatted save disk. You can save as many games as you
want. (Note: if you're playing on Amiga, you'll have to wait for a few 
seconds after inserting the disk, allowing enough time for the drive to 
read it.)

	- start a game with an old party from "Ishar, Legend of the 
Fortress" or "Ishar II, Messengers of Doom":

You'll have to insert a save disk used with the software in the floppy 
drive. The game will start at the beginning, with the characters from this 
new party. They will keep their attributes, but not their objects. However, 
sometimes the character levels and their magic spells might be slightly 
changed, so that they fit with the ones from Ishar III.

	- create a new team: follow the on-screen instructions. You must 
select the characters one by one. For each one, you must choose a race, a 
portrait, a class, then, you must share his or her points between the 
different attributes (strength, constitution...) by clicking on <+> and <->,
and finally, you must enter the character's name. To validate the party and
start the game, select the START GAME icon.
 
To cancel the selection and return to the main menu, click on END.

	- set the SOUND and MUSIC options ON or OFF.
	- start a new game with the default character.
	- quit to DOS. 


				    Page 33

THE CONTROL PANEL
-----------------

MOVEMENTS
---------

Movements are made using the directional arrows (5 to 10). You call move 
forward (6), sideways to the right (10) and to the left (83, make a quarter
turn to the right (7) and to the left (5) or move backwards (9). The compass
(2) indicates the direction in which you are facing. Some places are 
impassable, such as water and high bushes. 


				   Page 34 



TACTICS
-------

You can change the tactical positioning of the characters. To do so, click 
on the small frame (3). A 5x5 chequerboard appears with small symbols 
(Roman numerals) representing each character in the team - you will find 
these numbers at the bottom left of each character box. Choose the 
desired symbol and place it in one of the squares of the chequer board.

The characters placed in the highest boxes will be at the front of the 
group. They will be the first to receive blows. The characters placed 
behind will be fairly well protected (except in the case of attack from 
behind) but they will not be able to fight hand-to-hand unless they have a 
throwing weapon (see Combat section). To move in single file, place the 
symbols on the same verticle line; the character at the front of the group 
then receives all the blows and is the only who can fight hand-to-hand.

To move in a line abreast, place the symbols on the same horizontal line. 
In this case all the characters receive blows and can fight on the same 
level.


LOADING/SAVING A GAME
---------------------

If you click on the disk icon (4), you can quit the game and return to the 
main menu, load a previously saved game or save the current game, just 
follow the on-screen instructions (see "Main Menu").

MAP/TIME:
---------

In the top bar, above the 3D screen, you can see the number of days gone 
by represented by a moon, the current time represented by a sandglass 
and a third icon which will change according to the land you are in. If 
you are in the city, this icon allows you to access a map of the city. Your 
position is then marked by a flashing arrow, which shows the direction 
you are facing. As you make new discoveries, new symbols will appear
on the map (inns, shops...).

You can only see the town on the map, the other lands are not listed. So if
you are not in the town, the icon will be a time scale which indicates 
whether you are in the past or in the future.You can also use the space bar 
to access the map.


				     Page 35


COMBAT
------

Fights take place in real time. The fight panel (11) groups together the
fight icons of each player with their active weapon. These icons are 
arranged in a quincunx (4 at the corners of the square and 1 in its centre) 
and represent from left to right the five characters in the team, identified
by their Roman numeral. To make a character strike, click on the 
corresponding fight icon.

The icon will change colour during the attack You can strike again when 
the icon has returned to its initial colour. Blows are struck with the 
weapon the character is holding. Their speed will vary from weapon to 
weapon. A 2-handed weapon is slower than a 1-handed weapon, but 
causes more harm. If the player has a weapon in each hand he will strike 
twice as fast as with a single weapon. The weapon used will then change 
in the icon at each blow. Without a weapon the character will strike with 
his fists.

To strike an adversary you have to be in the front line (see section 
Control Panel: Tactics). The characters placed behind can however use 
throwing weapons which can be recognised by little lines symbolising 
speed. To throw these weapons, click on the fight icon. The cursor will 
change. Then select the adversary to be hit who call be some distance 
away. Hits are represented on the picture by a small patch of blood 
showing the damage points, ie the life points the victim has lost This 
damage depends on several parameters: the power of the weapon, strength, 
agility (throwing weapons in particular), weaponry skill, the adversary's
constitution, etc.


				    Page 36



THE TEAM PANEL
--------------

The team consists of a maximum of 5 characters. At the start of the game 
you will have only one character. The name of each player is written at 
the bottom (16), His face appears in the medallion (13). If the box is 
unoccupied, the medallion contains a stone face (21). Note the Roman 
numeral (14) at the bottom left which represents the character in the 
tactical table (see Control Panel section). The bar (15) represents the 
level of life points. Watch it carefully, because the character will die 
when it reaches zero. A skull will then appear in the frame. You can 
recover the possessions shown in the character sheet of a character who 
has died if you do not move, The slightest movement will cause the 
deceased player to disappear. When all the players are dead the game is 
over. The four icons (12) give access to the management and information 
panels which will appear in place of the character's face. By re-clicking a
second time on these icons the face will reappear in the medallion.

- The first icon opens a menu which suggests different actions (see 
Actions section below).
- The second icon reiterates the main parameters (17): physical and 
psychic levels, experience, money, Physical fitness affects fighting 
performance, This level drops as the character travels. When it reaches 
zero, the life points gradually decrease. To raise them the character must 
sleep, eat, or drink reviving potions. Psychic powers influence the 
effects and duration of magic spells. You can recover psychic points by 
sleeping or drinking certain potions.

- The third icon shows the hands (box 18) and the different physiological 
states of the player (box 19). These states are caused by magic spells 
which have been cast over the character and by which he is still affected 
(see Spells section). Any objects which may be held appear in the hands. 
You can exchange or place objects directly from these windows See 
Character Sheet section).

- The fourth and last icon (red dot, if operational) is used to cast magic 
spells (20). Only certain classes (scholars, magicians, druids) can east 
spells. Select a spell from the table, Some can be cast directly but most 
will require you to point directly to the character on the screen (attack 
spells) or among your companions (defence spells) - the cursor will then 
change into a target. By using the two arrows on the sides you can 
change the spells table (a choice of three tables: defence spells, attack 
spells, or various spells). The two numbers under the arrows respectively 
indicate the character's physicic energy and the level of the spell 
selected, There are about 30 spells of different levels. They are acquired 
when the character changes levels (see Spells section).


				    Page 37


ACTIONS
-------

To carry out a specific action click on the "act" icon of the character
concerned. Four actions are offered:

- Enrol: The cursor becomes a hand. Point it at the character to be 
enroled. Without exception, the best place to enrol is the inn. Each 
character gives a vote which depends on his or her liking for the 
character to be enroled. Candidates are only admitted by a majority 
decision (see section Character Sheet: Alignment). Warning: Traitors can 
sometimes infiltrate a team. They disappear without trace, sometimes 
stealing things.

-Dismiss: As with enroling, the other members of the team give their 
vote. A dismissed player disappears from the game and cannot be 
enroled again. Dismissal is less dangerous than assassination, but is not 
always practical and the character's possessions cannot be recovered. In 
the course of the game you will often need to get rid of a character.

- Assassinate: Select the team member to be assassinated. Be careful, 
because the psychology of the characters comes into play. If one of the 
companions has a lot of sympathy for the victim (see section Character 
Sheet: Alignment) he may in turn kill the murderer. You could thus bring 
about a whole series of killings.

- First aid: Select the person to be helped. An individual who has been 
given first aid cannot receive it a second time unless he has been struck
again in the interim. The effectiveness of first aid depends on the player's
level of skill in this subject. 


				    Page 38



PLACES
------

INNS
----

You are offered four options. 

- Listen: You can pick up information.
- Enrol: The inn is the best place for enroling. Select the torso of the 
person you want to enrol. Your choice will be confirmed or rejected by the 
vote of the other team members.

- Eat: You have to pay for a full meal for the whole of the learn. If all 
the players together do not have enough money, none of them can eat. 
Otherwise the sum will be deducted from the companions in equal 
shares. If one of them does not have enough the balance will be made up 
by his companions according to the order in which they are arranged on the 
team panel.

- Sleep: the same principles as for eating. A room is taken for the whole 
team.

HOUSES
------

Here the team's control panels do not work. Only the character sheets 
can be selected. You will find various types of people here. Usually they 
will give you valuable information or suggest "missions" to you. Sometimes 
you can pick up objects. Click on them and place them with one of the 
characters.

SHOPS
----- 

There are two types of shops: the ones selling weapons and the rest.
To buy an item, select it on the shelves and confirm in the window of the 
character who wants to buy it or on the character inventory, by clicking 
on his name. If the buyer hasn't got enough money, the sale is cancelled.
To sell an item, select the object to be sold in the character inventory 
and click on the shop-keeper. The price he is ready to pay for the item
will appear. You can always refuse his offer.

TIME GATES
----------

They allow you to access other lands, in the past or future. You can see 
the time on the top left icon. When you start the game, you don't know 
any doors. Of course, past events can change the present and the future... 


				Page 39




THE CHARACTER SHEET
-------------------

Each character in the team has his own sheet. Access it by clicking 
their name (16).

CHARACTER STATISTICS (frame 23)
-------------------------------

This covers three pages which you can turn using the "Book" icons (27)
and contains:

- Identity: name, race, class (profession) 
- The character's level and experience 
- Degree of fitness: physical, psychic, vitality
- Team cohesion or ALIGNMENT: We have shown that relationships 
play an important part: votes on enrolment or dismissal, serial killings, 
refusal to give first aid. These are based on the alignment tables. These 
alignments depend on the tendancy to good or evil and the sympathies 
and antipathies between races (eg dwarfs dislike elves). Team cohesion 
summarises the different alignments between the characters in the team.

- Characteristics and skills influence the players' actions (eg a strong 
person will cause the enemy more damage, a robust person will withstand 
blows better). These parameters develop in the course of the game in 
relation to fights, successes and set-backs. There are seven skills: 
lock-picking, perception, first aid, shooting (bows and arrows and 
crossbows), weaponry skills (l-handed weapons, 2-handed weapons, throwing 
weapons).

MONEY
-----

The "Money" icon (31) shows the sum of money held. By clicking on it you 
will access a money management menu. By selecting the icon with the 3 
arrows, all the sums of money are evenly distributed among the different 
members of the team. You can also give a certain amount of money to another
character: to set a figure click on the various columns of units, tens, 
hundreds etc Then click on the "coin" icon which will take the place of the
cursor. Then validate it on the character concerned The "All" icon selects
the total sum which the player owns The "0" icon returns the sum back to 
zero.


				    Page 40


OBJECTS (Frame 24)
------------------

A character often possesses a few objects at the outset. When you find 
an object, you can place it in one of the nine boxes. Certain objects
can be grouped together in the same box: food (maximum = 5), potions 
(maximum - 10), arrows (maximum = 20) The number of objects is then shown
at the bottom right of the box. Select an object by clicking on it - or in
he case of objects grouped together, take them all by clicking on the 
number. 

Then you can:

- Destroy it by draping it on the 'DUSTBIN" icon (30) and clicking.
- Identify it by draging it to the "See" icon (29) and clicking.
- Eat and drink by validating the food or potions on the "Absorb" 
icon (28). Note that this icon can be used for blowing. Eating and 
drinking increases a player's physical and vitality points.
- Dress your character by placing clothes, armour and helmets on 
the torso (25). There are clothes for both men and women.
- Handle objects by clicking on them in the character inventory 
boxes or on-screen and draping them to the "Hands" icon (26).
If the object is large (two-handed weapons), the second hand will be 
dimmed and cannot be used.

- Place it in another character sheet by clicking on the name of the 
recipient and placing the object in one of his boxes.
- Place it directly into the hand of a team member by validating on 
the "Hands" icon (18) of the character concerned.
- If you select one object after another, exchanges will be made 
automatically.


				Page 41



POTIONS
-------

To make a potion, you need a magic flask (there's only one in the game!),to
use as a container. Prepare your mixtures by draging the different potions 
to the flask and validating. You can use it again once its contents have 
been absorbed Refer to the magic receipes below, as certain mixtures can 
have rather strange consequences...

To empty a full flask without drinking its contents, drag it to the
"WASTEBASKET" icon.

MAGIC RECIPES

"Bulkal" or Anti-Paralysis: 
	- one dose of salamander oil 
	
	- one dose of gargoyle claws

"Schloumz" or Physical Regeneration:

	- one dose of salamander oil 

	- one dose of dried mistletoe 

	- two doses of gargoyle claws


"Ghoslam" or Psychic Regeneration:

	- one dose of salamander oil 

	- one dose of dried mistletoe 

	- one dose or rat brain


"Clopatos" or Invulnerability: 

	- one dose of salamander oil

	- one dose of dried mistletoe 

	- one dose of rat brain 

	- one dose of gargoyle claws 


				    Page 42


SPELLS
------

There are about thirty spells corresponding to different levels of 
experience. Only four classes can cast spells: scholars, magicians, 
paladins and druids. 

Spells are specific to each of these classes. By increasing experience 
level, the character acquires higher level spells. The effectiveness of a 
spell (impact, duration) depends on the experience level of the spell 
caster. The higher the level, the more powerful the spell will be. Casting
spells requires a degree of psychic energy. If the character does not have
enough, the spell will have no effect. The more powerful the spell, the more
energy it will consume.


DESCRIPTION OF SPELLS
---------------------
 
*Defence spells (in order of level from lowest to highest): 

- Healing (scholar/druid): increases the life points of injured players.
- Protection: physical (scholar/magician) limits injury caused in fights, 
  and spells which protect the whole team. They are higher level spells.
- Specific care (scholar/druid): against poisoning and blindness. 
- Protection against fire (druid). 
- Resurrection of a player (scholar).
- Metamorphosis to change form (magician).

*Attack spells

-Strikes in order of levels: the fireball (magician), powerless against 
characters impervious to fire (dragons), the spiritual hammer (scholar), 
the flaming hand (magician), the ice cloud (magician) recommended against 
fire creatures, and the spirit of flame (magician) which is the most 
powerful spell.

-strikes against all enemies present: lightning (magician) and fire storm 
(magician), powerless against fire creatures.
-Specific actions against enemies: sleep (magician), blinding (scholar), 
paralysis (scholar magician).
Inversions: traditional inversion (scholar/magician) which changes a 
character's natural inclinations (friend/enemy), and the "turn undead" 
special (magician) which drives only the living dead mad.

*Specific spells

-The paranormal: "Paranormal" detection (magician) indicates that you are in
an accursed place. Exorcism (scholar) enables the curse to be lifted from 
the place.

-Telepathic reconnaissance (scholar) indicates the characteristics of the 
character encountered.

-The magic key (magician) opens all doors.

-The change of timescale (magician) allows you to change your temporal plan 
in the middle of a fight for a certain time. You can thus raise your life 
points and prepare your strategy.
-Teleportation (magician) is used with "memo-telep" (magician) which records
in advance the teleportation arrival point.


				     Page 43



                                 DEFENCE SPELLS
                                 --------------


Figure 1 : healing 			Figure 2 : global physic protections

Figure 3 : anti poison 			Figure 4 : restore vision

Figure 5 : resurrection 		Figure 6 : invulnerability

Figure 7 : psychic protection 		Figure 8 : metamorphoses

Figure 9 : regeneration 		Figure 10 : global psychic protection

Figure 11 : fireproofing		Figure 12 : anti-paralysis



				   Page 44


                                ATTACK SPELLS
                                -------------

Figure 1: fire-ball 			Figure 2: lightening	

Figure 3: paralysis 			Figure 4: fire-storm

Figure 5: blinding 			Figure 6: ice-cloud

Figure 7: flaming hand 			Figure 8: spirit of flame

Figure 9: sleep 			Figure 10: inversion	

Figure 11: spiritual hammer 		Figure 12: turn undead



				   Page 45



                              SPECIFIC SPELLS
                              ---------------



Figure 1: memo-telep 			Figure 2: magic-key

Figure 3: teleport 			Figure 4: paranormal detection

Figure 5: change of timescale 		Figure 6: exorcism

Figure 7: telepathic reconnaissance	Figure 8: poisoning




				   Page 46



                         THE LEGEND OF ANCIENT TIMES
                         ---------------------------

                                   "BEFORE"
                                   --------

The black god Morgoth, helped by Alnathrox, is conspiring against the Spirit
gods, and he is trying to set up a chaotic order. His project fails; Morgoth
is banished to the Kingdom of the Gods in a timeless plane. Alnathrox loses 
all influence, but he retains his place within the Kingdom.

Following this failure, the powers of chaos send their Black Dragons to face
the White Knights These wars, known as the "Wars of the Flame", end with the
terrible battle of Sith. The White Knights come out victorious. One single 
Black Dragon, Wohratax, survives the battle.

The Gods create the world of Crystals, with Arborea being the central place,
where the four magic crystals are to be found, the four symbols of 
equilibrium in the world: earth, sky, water and fire.


                 "THE ANCIENT TIMES OF THE FIRST CONJUNCTION"
                 --------------------------------------------

The First Conjunction takes place. This is the alignment of the sun, the two
moons and the planet Arborea. At the time of this cosmic event, Time Doors 
appear. Morgoth takes advantage of this to escape from the plane where he 
was exiled, in order to project himself almost 10 000 years into the future.

During these 10 000 years, peace has reigned over the world of Arborea, 
where three races live together: the ores, the Sham-nirs, the craftsmen elfs
and the black elfs, who rule the Kingdom.

This period comes to an end with the arrival of Morgoth. The later takes 
possession of the minds of the ores and the black elfs, who enter into a war
against the Sham-nirs. The Gods decide to scatter the Crystals. The world of
Arborea is engulfed under water, and only Arborea remains emerged. The 
survivors of this apocalypse try to find the Crystals. Jarel, the Prince of 
the Sham-nirs, and six companions succeed in doing so and they return the 
Crystals to their original location. The world of Arborea is regenerated and
it adopts the name of Kendoria. Morgoth is killed during the quest, but not 
before he had ensured his lineage with the sorceress Morgula, who had given 
him a son. Jon the Alchemist, one of Jarel's companions, draws up the 
Kendorian calendar. One year consists of six months, each of which bears the
name of one of the companions: Akeer, Olbar, Zach, Irvan, Thorm and Jon.


				   Page 47


                        CHRONOLOGY KENDORIAN CALENDAR
                        -----------------------------


- Year 1: Jarel is made Price of Kendoria and he reigns in peace over the 
entire kingdom. Morgula and her son Krogh flee from Arborea, and they go to
ground in the Forbidden Forest (future Irvan's Island). With the help of 
some humans, they found a community and drive back the lizard men into the 
marshes.

- Year 24: death of Jarel. His successors tear each other to pieces. 
Kendoria sinks into anarchy. Numerous adventurers of every race land on 
Arborea. Morgula and Krogh take advantage of this to establish themselves 
there.

- Year 28: Azalhgorm is sent to Kendoria by the Gods. He establishes himself
in the mountains and enters into meditation.

- Year 32 - 33: The jungle people split up. A large part emigrates to 
Arborea and found a town there: Urshurak. This is the future Koren Bahnir.

- Year 40: Krogh has a fortress built on the borders of the kingdom. This 
fortress is called Ishar, which means "unknown" in the elf language.

- Year 45: "The Story of Ancient Times" from Azalhgorm to Aramir, Jarel's
grandson.

- Year 46: Ishar's first quest. Death of Krogh.

- Year 47: The Sham-nirs regain power, and Kendoria is forbidden to all the 
people of the chaotic order. Alnathrox causes the water to rise around 
Kendoria and he flees from the Kingdom of the Gods. Kendoria, or the 
archipelago of Arborea, then consists of seven islands, each of which is 
named after one of Jarel's companions. The jungle people take refuge in the
trees. The people from the Northern Lands, which are submerged by the 
waters, establish themselves in Urshurak, which is renamed Zach's Island. 
Alnathrox, who is reincarnated as a monk of the chaotic order, takes 
advantage of the opportunity to enter into the town.

- Year 56 - 62: Under the reign of Zurbaran, Alnathrox, who calls himself 
Shandar, develops a trade in hallucinogenic potions, and he becomes a very 
powerful figure. He has a temple built for himself, which he names "Ishar II"
and which is intended to annihilate the hegemony of Ishar. At Zach's Island,
numerous followers dedicate a devilish cult to him.

- Year 57: Azalhgorm writes the Rhyme of the Dwilgelindildong.

- Year 62: Zurbaran has a vision of Jon the Alchemist. 


				    Page 48


- Year 62 - 63: Second quest, known as the "Messengers", who destroy Ishar 
II and kill Shandar, alias Alnathrox. Before dying, the later has the time 
to create a parallel plane, where his vital energy and his knowledge are 
kept alive.

- Year 63 - 96: Reign of the Community of the Messengers. Zach's Island is 
renamed Koren Bahnir, a name borrowed from the people of the Northern Lands.
Koren Bahnir becomes a very important town, as numerous people come to 
establish themselves there; in particular, the inhabitants of Irvan's 
Island, following an epidemic of White Plague, and the elf and humanoid 
people of the jungle, after the waters have receded.

- Year 72: The magician Malahar is eaten by wolves in the mountains. 
Numerous adventurers leave in search of his magic belt, but in vain.

- Year 80: Death of Jon the Alchemist after long death pangs, during which 
he drafts his "Visions of another world".

- Year 93: The great Alstar, successor to Azalhgorm, makes his prophecy.

- Year 96: Death of the last <Messenger>. The Princess of Koren Bahnir, 
Thina Dahilim, who was already ruling over the great city, extends her power
over the entire kingdom. The fortress of Ishar, which had lost all 
influence, is left in a state of abandonment. Numerous characters from the 
chaotic order establish themselves there, particularly Wohratax, the last of
the Black Dragons.

- Year 99: Thina Dahilim is abducted and confined in Ishar. The Governor of 
Koren Bahnir takes her succession.

- Year 100: Appearance of the Time Doors. Third quest of Ishar. Second 
Conjunction of the planets, which causes a shower of meteorites to fall into the jungle.

- Year 104: birth of the son of Thina Dahilim and Zoltar Vinks.

- Year 112: Erkh Moltus is elected Governor of Koren Bahnir.


				    Page 49



                                   APPENDIX I
                                   ----------

                                COMPUTER PIRACY
                                ---------------

Many people have shared In the design and marketing of the software program
you are using. This development was financed by the results of selling 
previous programs.

Illegal copies of software programs lead to a fall in profits, thus making 
prices rise, harming the consumer and directly threatening the world of 
video games and their uses.

Apart from the fraudulent sale of copies which is very severely punished by
 law, there is moral aspect to bare in mind - piracy swells the dole 
queues ! 


				    Page 50


      Typed by dlfrsilver specifically for CFOU's great whdload install

                           for ishar I,II and III


