
                             CALIFORNIA GAMES
                             ----------------

                     Typed by ???  Edited by PARASITE.


TABLE OF CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION ............................................ 1
OBJECTIVES .............................................. 1
STARTING PLAY ........................................... 3
HALF PIPE SKATEBOARD EVENT .............................. 4
FOOT BAG EVENT .......................................... 5
SURFING EVENT ........................................... 7
ROLLER SKATING EVENT .................................... 8
BMX BIKE RACING CONTEST ................................. 9
FLYING DISK EVENT ....................................... 10
CALIFORNIA GAMES SCORING ................................ 11

INTRODUCTION
"Hey, thrasher! Dontcha ever wear knee pads?" "Didja see that? He caught
some air on the half pipe! Radical!"

Welcome to California. Home of the most radical sports in the world. Rad,
bad abd aggro. You're about to hit the beaches, parks and streets of the
Golden State to go for trophies in everything from surfing to bike racing.
CALIFORNIA GAMES gives you the hottest sports. And the most aggro
competition. You even get to pick your own sponsor.

So pull on those knee pads. You're about to get into the most fun you've had
since Mom hid your skateboard. CALIFORNIA GAMES is going to take you from
the surf to the turf. From the pipe to the parks. Are you gonna love it, or
what?

We'll start you off in the heart of Hollywood, with skateboards in hot
competition on the radical Half Pipe. Then we'll rocket up to San
Francisco for the high-flying Foot Bag and some really wild footwork. After
that, it's down to the beach for two of the coolest sports we've got in
California. There's an awesome Roller Skating obstacle course, followed by
the king of coastal competition. Surfing. You'll be shooting the tube and
carving the biggest breakers around.

Over at the dirt track, you'll pump the pedals of a BMX racing bike. And
your moves had better be bad. For the grand finale, you'll go to Yosemite
where you'll be flinging the fantastic Flying Disk. That's six massive
events. You're gonna have your hands full. Not to mention your feet.

You're about to get into the wildest game of them all... CALIFORNIA GAMES.
It's only, like, the most totally awesome game in the world.

OBJECTIVES
CALIFORNIA GAMES is a challenge of skills for one to eight players. The
object of the game is to win trophies in each individual events. Players
can also compete for the top trophy in overall competition.

CALIFORNIA GAMES includes six exciting events: Half Pipe Skateboard,
Foot Bag, Surfing, Skating, BMX Bike Racing and Flying Disk. You can
practice or compete in any single event, compete in all the events, or even
set up your own competition using events that you choose yourself.

                                                                     1

Each player chooses a sponsor for the competition. You are judged on each
event and a record is kept of your score. Trophies are awarded to the top
scoring competition.

If you break an event record, CALIFORNIA GAMES will save your name and
display it on a special high score screen. Improve your skills in each
event, compete with your family and friends and become a California
Champion.
                                                                     2

STARTING PLAY
When the CALIFORNIA GAMES title screen appears, press the FIRE BUTTON
on your joystick to continue to the menu screen. The CALIFORNIA GAMES
menu offers a choice of options. To make a selection, use your joystick
to move the cursor to your choice, then press the FIRE BUTTON. You may
also select an option by typing the corresponding numbered key.

OPTION 1: Compete in All the Events
Compete in all six events. The number of trophies awarded to each player is
tallied as you compete, and a special trophy is awarded to the overall
champion at the conclusion of the last event. You'll compete in the events
in this order: Half Pipe Skateboard, Foot Bag, Surfing, Skating, BMX Bike
Racing and Flying Disk.

   o You'll first be asked to enter your name and pick a sponsor.
   o Type your name on the keyboard and press the RETURN key.
   o Use the joystick to move the cursor to the sponsor of your choice,
     then press the FIRE BUTTON to pick that sponsor.
   o Repeat the name and sponsor selection for each additional player (up
     to eight). When all players' names and sponsors have been entered,
     press the RETURN key again.
   o A verification screen will appear. If all the names are correct, select
     YES with the joystick and press the FIRE BUTTON, or type A. If you
     need to make any changes, select No or type B.

OPTION 2: Compete in Some Events
Similar to Option 1, but you compete in the events of your choice.

   o Choose the event(s) by typing the corresponding numbered key or by
     moving your joystick and pressing the FIRE BUTTON.
   o The events you choose will be displayed in purple.
   o When you are finished choosing the events, move the cursor to the
     word DONE and press the FIRE BUTTON.

OPTION 3: Compete in One Event
Similar to Options 1 and 2, but you compete in any single event of your
choice.

   o Choose the event by typing the corresponding numbered key or by
     moving your joystick and pressing the FIRE BUTTON.

OPTION 4: Practice One Event
   o Choose the event by typing the corresponding numbered key or by
     moving your joystick and pressing the FIRE BUTTON. No scores are kept
     during practice rounds.

                                                                     3

OPTION 5: View High Scores
   o Displays the highest score recorded in all events, with the name of
     the player who achieved each record.
   o Press the FIRE BUTTON to return to the menu.

OPTION 6: View Title Screen
   o Displays the title screen and credits
   o Press the FIRE BUTTON to return to the menu

THE GAMES
Half Pipe Skateboarding

It's time to get air on the half pipe. Skateboarding is definitely an
awesome event, combining strength and coordination--often with amazing
results. You'll be riding a skateboard in a specially built half-pipe.
You'll have a 1 minute, 15 second time period, or three falls, to build up
speed and successfully complete stunts. Points are awarded for each stunt,
and the highest score wins the event.

OBJECT: The object of the half-pipe event is to ride the board back and
forth on the ramp, performing stunts with proper timing and execution.

   o Press the FIRE BUTTON  to start the event.
   o To gain speed, move the joystick UP when the skater is going up the
     side of the ramp, then move the stick DOWN when the skater is going
     down.
   o To perform a stunt, move the joystick as shown in the diagram. Pay
     attention to timing, because you'll fall if you move the stick too
     soon, too late, or if you hold it too long. After three falls, the
     event is over.

    NOTE:  (To view diagram, Load the file Pic1.iff with an IFF viewer.)

                                                                     4

   o To start a kick turn, move the joystick as indicated on the diagram
     above. Earn maximum points by waiting until the last moment to start
     the turn, and holding the joystick (or key) until the moment before
     you'd wipe out.
   o To start an aerial turn, tap the joystick (or press a key) in the
     direction indicated in the diagram. To perform this move successfully,
     you must be in the air off the edge of the ramp before tapping the
     joystick.
   o To perform a hand plant, press and hold the FIRE BUTTON just as you
     reach the top of the ramp. The skater will plant his hands and flip
     the board over his head. Wait to release the button until the board
     arcs over and returns to the ramp. Earn maximum points for pressing
     the button at the last moment, and releasing it at the last moment.

SCORING: You score points for each stunt completed successfully. Your
score increases with the amount of risk you take. For example, if you hold a
turn until the last moment, you get more points than if you pull out early
when it's safer. Some stunts are more difficult and earn higher scores than
others.

      Stunt                         Minimum              Maximum
      Kick Turns                      100                  300
      Hand Plants                     400                  700
      Aerial Turns                    400                  999

STARTEGY: It's important to build up the right amount of speed before
trying a stunt. You can gain speed by doing a "fakie." To fakie, hold the
joystick up or down for the full duration of the ramp (from top to bottom).
Remember that you'll wipe out if you go too fast. Above all, be sure to get
plenty of practice on the half pipe. This event takes experience to get the
timing down just right.

FOOT BAG
This is probably the most laid back event, but don't lose your cool, it
isn't easy. The Foot Bag event is like juggling with your feet. In this
event, you have to keep a juggling bag in the air for 1 minute, 15 seconds,
without using your hands. Success is all in the timing. If you time your
kicks correctly, you'll keep the bag bouncing high in the air. Score extra
points by performing stunts. The highest score wins the event.

OBJECT: Hacking at the sack with your feet, knees and head, you must try to
make as many kicks as you can before time runs out. And remember, you get
extra points for every stunt you perform.

                                                                     5

    o Press the FIRE BUTTON to kick the bag into the air and start the
      event.
    o As the bag falls back toward the ground, press the FIRE BUTTON to
      kick again just before the bag reaches your foot.
    o To peform a head butt, press the FIRE BUTTON just before the bag
      drops below the level of your head.
    o Move the joystick as indicated in the diagram to control other move-
      ments.

                               Jump
                                |
                                |
                    Move Left--   --Move Right
                                |
                                |
                           Turn Around
                           (About face)

    o Several types of kicks are possible, including inside kicks, outside
      kicks, jumping reverse kicks, knee kicks and back kicks.
    o To perform different types of kicks, move to ne positions underneath
      the bag while it's in the air. For example, move to the right so the
      bag will drop next to you (but not too far). Now press the FIRE
      BUTTON when the bag approaches and you'll perform an outside kick.
    o Other kicks are performed by positioning yourself in different ways.
      Discover the ways to perform all the kicks by trying various move-
      ments during practice.

SCORING: You earn points for each stunt or kick performed successfully. More
difficult stunts, like turning around while the bag is in the air, earn
higher scores. You lose time if you drop the bag or kick it off the screen.
You also earn points for consecutive kicks completed without allowing the
bag to touch the ground. Earn bonus for catching the sack when thrown from
offscreen. Here are some stunts to try by combining different kicks and
moves:

     Any Kick: (10 pts.)
     Half Axle: (250 pts.) Any two kicks with a half spin in between.
     Full Axle: (500 pts.) Any two kicks with a full spin in between.
     Horseshoe: (500 pts.) Left back kick + right back kick.
     Jester: (2000 pts.) Left jumping kick or right jumping kick.
     Double arch: (2500 pts.) Left outside kick + right outside kick + left
       outside kick.
     Doda: (5000 pts.) Left outside kick + head butt + right outside kick.
     Catch from Off Screen: (1500 pts.)

                                                                     6

STRATEGY: The more complicated kicks and stunts you can complete before
time runs out, the higher your score will be. Special bonus points are
awarded for variety, so use as many different stunts as you can.

SURFING
Surfing began as the sport of Hawaiian kings; now it rules the California
coastline. From Santa Cruz to Rincon Point, surfers and their colorful
boards dot the miles of sun-splashed beaches. And you're about to join them.
You'll shoot the curl, shred the tube and probably even eat a little sand
(when you wipe out). It's going to be hot. You'll be there. And you'll be
awesome.

OBJECT: Competition surfing is a game of staying near the curl of the wave
and maneuvering your board smoothly at high speeds. Ride the face of the
wave, moving back and forth, in and out of the tube. "Use" as much of the
wave as you can before your ride comes to an end.

   o Press the FIRE BUTTON to catch a wave and start the event.
   o Hold the joystick LEFT to avoid wiping out at the beginning of your
     ride.
   o To steer the board to the surfer's left, move the joystick LEFT.
   o To steer the board to the surfer's right, move the joystick RIGHT.
   o Hold the FIRE BUTTON down to make sharper turns. Note that sharp turns
     slow you down.
   o If you go too close to the bottom of the wave, you'll either wipe out
     or end your ride by leaving the wave.
   o To end your ride cleanly, go over the top of the wave.
   o If you go over the top of the wave and turn your board around in the
     air, you can catch the wave again (but you'll wipe out if you come
     back down at a bad angle).
   o You'll get 1 minute, 30 seconds for the event or 4 wipeouts. You earn
     more points for longer rides, so try to ride each wave as long as you
     possibly can.

SCORING: You're scored for the length of your ride, the number of turns you
make and your speed each time you turn. You also earn high points from the
judges for riding in the tube (underneath the curl of the wave), and riding
near the break. "Catching air" scores extra points: ride up to the top of
the wave until the end of your board clears the crest, then turn and
continue your ride.

STRATEGY: Your final score is based on how well you "use" the wave. Riding
along straight, far out in front of the break counts for very little. Take
risks. The more risks you take to do your stunts, the more points you will
earn.

                                                                     7

Making cutbacks (180-degree turns), moving up and down the wave and doing
360's (complete circles) all earn high scores. Earn maximum points for high
speed turns, especially if you complete them near the top of the wave or
near the break.

ROLLER SKATING
Roller skating is hot. Anyone can skate and almost everyone does, with a
feeling of freedom unlike any other sport. And CALIFORNIA GAMES skating is
as radical as you can get. The trick is to skate down a beach boardwalk
without falling. You'll have to avoid cracks in the sidewalk, grass, sand,
puddles of water, shoes lying in your path and more. You'll have to squat
to miss flying beach balls. You'll even have to jump over missing pieces
of the sidewalk!

OBJECT: The object in roller skating is to avoid the obstacles and cover the
course in the best possible time, with as many stunts as you can perform
during the event.

   o Press the FIRE BUTTON to start the event.
   o To begin skating, roll the joystick to the UP position. Then roll the
     joystick to the DOWN position. Continue rolling between these two
     positions to gain speed.
   o Move the joystick as shown in the diagram to perform other skating
     moves. NOTE: (REFER TO PIC2.IFF)
   o To squat, press and hold the FIRE BUTTON.
   o To jump, release the FIRE BUTTON.
   o Try to avoid all the obstacles. You're allowed three falls. On the
     third fall you are disqualified and your race is over.

SCORING: Score points for each obstacle you avoid. Earn double points for
jumping over obstacles. Earn the highest scores for 360's while jumping
obstacles.

    Avoid Obstacles: 10 - 30 points
    Jumping Over Obstacles - 20 - 60 points
    Spinning Jump Over Obstacles - 40 - 120 points

                                                                     8

STRATEGY: You'll score points for each object you successfully avoid or
jump over, so be careful -- speed is less important than staying on your
feet. Remember that you earn points for spinning jumps over obstacles
(jumping and spinning at the same time). Complicated moves lead to high
scores. But be careful not to fall more than twice, or you'll be out of the
competition.

BMX BIKE RACING
BMX stands for Bicycle Motoscross. It also stands for radical action and
challenging competition. In this event, riders use strong, lightweight
bicycles to race on an action-packed course in the California desert. There
are plenty of jumps, bumps and dips. (Rows of low bumps are called "Whoop-
ti-dos.") You'll need speed, a good sense of timing and a heavy dose of
endurance.

OBJECT: The object is to cover the course in the fastest possible time,
performing stunts and avoiding or jumping over obstacles. The fastest dare-
devil rider will win this event.

   o Move the joystick RIGHT to start the event.
   o Move the joystick UP to steer LEFT.
   o Move the joystick DOWN to steer RIGHT.
   o Move the joystick RIGHT repeatedly to increase your speed.
   o Press the FIRE BUTTON to jump.
   o Move the joystick LEFT to do a wheelie.
   o When you're in the air, use the joystick to perform stunts:
     - Move the stick UP to do a table top. Hold the stick as long as
       possible then release the joystick to put the bike down.
     - Move the stick DOWN to do a 360-degree turn.
     - Move the stick LEFT to do a backward flip.
     - Move the stick RIGHT to do a forward flip.
   o Timing is important to perform stunts and jumps. You must time the
     start and finish of each move to complete it successfully. If you're
     not back in a "centered" position by the time you land or complete
     your stunt, you will crash.
   o You're allowed one "serious" fall or three "easy" falls before you're
     out of the race. If you flip and fall on your head, it's a serious
     fall.
   o At the end of the course, press the FIRE BUTTON to stop. You earn bonus
     points for stopping on the finish pad.

SCORING: Try to complete the course within the 2 minute time limit. The
faster your time, the higher your score will be. You also get points for
each stunt, with bonus points for holding stunts as long as possible.

                                                                      9

Here's a table of the minimum and maximum points awarded for each stunt:

          Stunt               Minimum        Maximum
          Wheelie               100            200
          Jump                  200            400
          Table Top             500           1000
          360 Turn             1000           2000
          Backward Flip        1500           3000
          Forward Flip         3000           6000

STRATEGY: When you complete the course, you get 60 points for each second
left in the time limit. So finishing the course in the fastest possible
time is important, but the highest scores go to the riders who perform
the most daring stunts. Make a 6000-point forward flip, and you've
probably got a lock on the first place trophy.

FLYING DISK
To serious competitors, the plastic saucer invented by two Californians in
1947 is called a "flying disk." Of course, you may know it by another name.
Originally spelled Frisbie, the disk's most popular name originated at Yale
University, where students first started tossing empty pie plates made by
the Frisbie Pie Company one hundred years ago. Now molded from light and
flexible plastic, the flying disk is a common sight whirling through the
air at beaches and parks everywhere in California, and it's the perfect
challenge of skill and timing to wind up the competition in CALIFORNIA
GAMES.

OBJECT: The object of the Flying Disk is to throw accurately to the catcher
at the other end of the field. Score extra points for difficult catches.

   o Press the FIRE BUTTON to start the event.
   o You get three attempts to throw and catch the disk.
   o Try to throw the disk far enough to reach the catcher standing at the
     other end of the field.
   o Use the bar at the bottom of the screen to make your throw. The bar has
     three colors: red, yellow and green. Use the green area for the most
     powerful throw.
   o Tap the joystick LEFT to start swinging your arm back. When the needle
     reaches the green section of the bar, tap the stick RIGHT. When the
     needle reaches the green section on the right side of the bar, tap the
     stick LEFT again to release the disk.
   o The display at the top of the screen helps you move the catcher to
     intercept the disk after it has been thrown.

                                                                     10

   o As the disk flies across the field, move the joystick LEFT or RIGHT to
     run toward the point where you think the disk will land.
   o To catch the disk, you must meet it with your hands. Note that your
     hands are extended only when you're running or diving.
   o To attempt an overhead standing catch, hold the joystick UP to reach
     up for the disk.
   o To dive after the disk, press the FIRE BUTTON.

SCORING: Points are awarded for the throw and the catch. For the throw,
score points with the accuracy and height of the toss. The fewer steps the
catcher has to run to meet the disk, the more points are awarded for the
throw. Points are scored for catching the disk as follows:

                   - 150 pts. for a catch while running right.
                   - 250 pts. for a catch while running left.
                   - 250 pts. for a catch while diving right.
                   - 350 pts. for a catch hile diving left.
                   - 350 pts. for a catch over your head.

STRATEGY: Throwing accuracy is the key to winning the Flying Disk (of
course, it also helps to make a good catch!). To get the best possible
score, throw the disk so the catcher doesn't have to move far to reach it,
then make a diving catch or an overhead catch.

CALIFORNIA GAMES SCORING

AWARDS CEREMONY
After every event, trophies are awarded with the names and sponsors of the
top finishers in the order they placed.

CHAMPION CEREMONY
If the players compete in all six CALIFORNIA GAMES events, a final trophy
is awarded to the Champion of the games based on the total number of points
awarded.

                 First Place   = 5 points
                 Second Place  = 3 points
                 Third Place   = 1 point

The points are totaled after all events have been completed, and the player
with the most points is the California Champion.

EVENT RECORDS
If an event record is broken or tied in any event, CALIFORNIA GAMES saves
the name of the record-breaking player. The records are displayed on the
Event Records screen. If a new record is set for an event, the previous
record is erased and the new information appears in its place.

                                                                     11

CALIFORNIA SPOKEN HERE
AGGRO (a-gro) adj. if you're a dare-devilly dude you'll go "way aggro",
executing aggressive moves on the ramps and waves of California.

AWESOME (ah-sum) adj. awe-inspiring. ie. That's one awesome dude.

BIO (bi-o) adj. short for bionic. You've got to be superhuman with aggro
moves to be known as bio.

DUDE (dyud) noun. buddy: can be used to express disbelief as in "DUDE!",
or surprise, as in "DUDE!", or as a friendly greeting, as in "Hey DUDE!"
Say while laughing for an attention-getting effect, ie. Duhuhuhude!

GNARLY (narly) adj. mind and body bendingly difficult. Waves, ramps and
aggro moves can be gnarly. Then there are gnarly tests, gnarly prom dates,
gnarly curfews, etc...

LIKE (lik) prep. insert anywhere you like, like, in any sentence, in, like,
any context. Used most effectively when upset: "it's, like, geez..." Or the
coolest way to use "like" is with "all" (for more description) "It's, like -
I'm all - Duuude you've got sand in your jams."

RADICAL (raa-di-cul) adj. 1)outrageous "Radical moves, dude!" 2)cool: "It'd
be radical if you could cruise to the ramp around 5 o'clock."

TOTALLY (toh-tul-ly) adj. completely, entirely: something or someone is
totally awesome, radical, or aggro. In California everything is totally
something. (companion word: see Tubular)

TUBULAR (tyu-byu-lar) adj. an adjective that came from the sea and has
evolved into an everyday term. Parties, concerts, etc. can be totally
tubular. It's use is endangered by the word "awesome". (companion word:
see Totally)
