                        ARCTICFOX DOC

Typed in by DR.J. Edited by PARASITE.


BACKGROUND
     Although the allen task force has been active in Antarctica
 since about 2005, when a member of the doomed Hagerty Expedition
 managed to escape the alien force field with information about
 the activities taking place within its boundaries.  Most
 significantly, it seems the aliens have been very productive in
 the relatively short time they have occupied the area, and have
 succeeded in building a number of oxygen converters in an
 attempt to replace the earth's atmosphere with one more suited
 to their physiological makeup.  the atmosphere surrounding
 their native planet, STV-7X,, is made up of equal parts of
 ammonia, methane, and chiorine gas, and is obviously hostile
 to human existence.
 It is also volatile, and so long as any traces of oxygen remain
 in the atmosphere, will cause atmospheric disturbances of a
 spectacular nature, mainly in the form of intense electrical storms.

     At our present stage of technology, we have no weapons
 capable of penetrating the alien force field directly, although
 indirect methods may be available. One possible approach is
 the temporarily weaken one side of the force field by causing
 a magnetic disturbance of the other.  Preliminary tests show
 that this method may cause sufficient disruption of the force
 field to allow entry of a single combat vehicle into occupied
 territory. The obvious choice for the combat vehicle is the
 new supertank from General Polemics, the Slye-Hicks MX-100,
 codename: ARCTICFOX.

     Arcticfox is the most advanced terrain vehicle of its
 kind. Specially designed for polar combat, it features full
 missile-launching capability as well as standard shelliling
 and mine-placement functions. In addition, Arcticfox can
 "dig in" into snow, allowing it to escape detection from all
 but the most sophisticated radar equipment. Finally,
 Arcticfox's four-speed automatic transmission provides
 low-end torque as well as a top speed in excess of 100 kph.

     Combat plan involves infiltration into alien territory
 at 0900 hours.  This coincides with the enemy's greatest
 energy usage, and is thus considered optimal for attempting to
 penetrate the force field. Once inside enemy territory, all
 radio communication with HQ will be terminated to reduce the
 possibility of detection. The operator is therefore advised
 to become familiar with combat strategy as outlined in this
 manual, as no further info will be available from HQ once
 penetration has been achieved.

SKILL LEVELS
     In addition to the 2 advanced levels (beginner and
 tournament), Arcticfox includes two preliminary (pre-game)
 levels to let you preview the enemy resources and develop
 proficiency in controlling your equipment.  Although you
 can start playing at the advanced levels right away, you
 will get more out of the game if you sp[end a little time
 at the preliminary levels learning about the enemy and
 about Arcticfox.

PRELIMINARY LEVELS

     ENEMY PREVIEW:  When you select this mode, the enemy's
 resources parade before you, appropriately labeled, so you
 can see what you will be up against.
     TRAINING LEVEL:  At this level you can roam around the
 terrain and shoot the enemy to your heart's content, but you
 cannot complete the game (which requires blowing up or
 otherwise disabling the main fort). At training level, your
 armor is tougher, and you have a large supply of ammo, while
 the enemy is weaker and less intelligent. In addition,when
 you start playing at this level, you don't start at the same
 map location as you do in the advanced levels, but at a
 different location,

ADVANCED LEVELS

     BEGINNER:  Start at this level if you are still learning
 the basics.  At this level you have an ample supply of mines
 and missiles, and your armor is tougher.  In addition, there
 are fewer enemy resources to contend with, and the enemy is
 weaker then it is at the Tournament level.


  TOURNAMENT:  This level is for the aficionado. AT
 tournament level the enemy is very intelligent and has use of
 a tracking device which provides a constant readout of your
 location. In addition, all advanced hazards (such as slid,
 friction and acceleration physics)are in full force, making
 it more difficult to maneuver. Your starting position in
 Tournament level varies among 8 preselected locations.
 Upon selecting Tournament level, you are given the opportunity
 to select starting location and enemy configuration from the
 available choices.

INSTRUMENTS

     WARNING LIGHT;  The warning light indicates whether or
 not the Arcticfox has been spotted by the enemy. A green
 light means that Arcticfox has no been spotted; a yellow light
 indicates that Arcticfox has been spotted by the enemy locally,
 ie., only by the enemy in the local sector. A red light means
 the Arcticfox's location is known by the enemy throughout
 the entire area. When this happens, the communications fort
 will mobilize search patrols and strike forces. However,
 because the Arcticfox's location during condition red is
 relayed through the communications fort, destruction of the
 fort will effectively counteract transfer of that information.

     RADAR/AFT VIEW:  The Arcticfox's radar view is a bird's
 eye view of the surrounding area with the Arcticfox in the
 center of the screen.  The radar will not reveal the enemy
 hiding behind terrain objects.  The aft view is provided by
 a camera attached to the rear of the Arcticfox.  The radar
 view always keeps north at the top of the screen, regardless
 of the direction the Arcticfox is facing, making it easy to
 coordinate direction with the compass (see below).
  Pressing the radar/aft key when the missile is active
 toggles between the view from the missile and the radar view,
 on the small viewport.

     OXYGEN:  Shows the percentage of oxygen remaining in the
 atmosphere.  The rate of conversion can be slowed down by
 destroying the enemy's air converters.

     COMPASS:  Shows the Arcticfox's heading using standard
 compass orientation

     MINES:  Indicates the number of mines remaining.

     GUIDED MISSILES:  Indicates the number of guided missiles
 remaining.

     POSITION:  Shows the Arcticfox's current position in
 degrees and minutes for both longitude and latitude.

     CLOCK:  No prize for guessing this one.  However, you
 should be aware that the clock always starts at 0900 hours
 each time you start the game.

     SPEEDOMETER:  Indicates Arcticfox's speed in kpm. The
 needle points to the right of center when the Arcticfox is
 moving forward. and to the left of center when the
Arcticfox is moving backward.  The needle is centered when
 your not moving.

     GUNSIGHT:  The 4 converging diagonal lines in the main
 viewport meet to become crosshairs as soon as an enemy;
 your vehicle is within range. Note that during the reload
 cycle (see controlling arcticfox, below) the square brackets
 in the sight disappear until Arcticfox's cannon is ready to
 fire again.

     DAMAGE INDICATOR:  The damage indicator is green when
 Arcticfox is undamaged, and slowly turns yellow and finally
 red as Arcticfox sustains damage.

CONTROLLING ARCTICFOX

     To fire the ARcticfox's canon, press your joystick button.
 Note that Arcticfox needs to reload between shots.  Although
 reloading is automatic, it may take up to 5 seconds.

In addition, you can access the following functions through
 the keyboard, using either of two sets of keys.  Right-
handed players may perfer to use the set of keys on the left
 hand side of the keyboard, while left-handed players may with
 to use the keys on the right. thereby reserving the preferred
 hand for joystick control:  The following table summarized
 these extra functions. You might want to make up a reference
 card for the keyboard controls .

     GUIDED MISSILE:  Firing a missile changes the view out of
 the small viewport to the camera on the missile.  Once you
 have fired a missile, you can use the joystick, to guide it.
  This means that the missile viewport can act like a mini
 flight simulator, so that you can use it for reconnaissance
 if you wish.  When you find a suitable target, press the
 same key a second time to lock the missile onto the target
 and return you to Arcticfox's viewport.  Missiles have a
 range of one radar screen beyond the current location, in
 all 8 directions.

     MINE:  This function causes a mine to drop out of the
 back of the Arcticfox.  These mines are live, so it's not a
 good idea to run over them.. In addition, mines will
 self-detonate after a certain time period.

     AFT VIEW:  This function let you toggle between the
 overhead radar and the aft view.  The control panel button
 lights up when in aft view mode.

     CANNON INCLINATION:  By accessing this function you can
 use the joystick to control you cannon's inclination and its
 sights in the viewport.  Pressing the button a second time
 turns this function off.  When you are using the joystick
 to control cannon inclination, it is not available to
 control Arcticfox's forward or reverse movement.
  So while you are manipulating the cannon, the Arcticfox
 will continue moving forward or backward in accordance with
 your last joystick command.. You can still control the
 Arcticfox's heading, however, by moving the joystick right
 or left.

     RELATIVE REVERSE:  This is used in conjunction with cannon
 inclination and works only in that mode.  Accessing this
 function causes the Arcticfox to reverse direction, so
 that if it is moving forward when the button is pressed, it
 will change to reverse, and vice versa.  In addition,
 pressing the button when Arcticfox is stationary will cause
 it to move forward.

     DIG IN:  This function buries the Arcticfox when it is
 in snow.  but has no effect at other times.  When the
 ARcticfox is buried, there is no view from the viewport,
 although radar still functions.  You can dig out by pressing
 the same key a second time.  Note that you can still fire
 missiles when you are dug in

THE ARCTIC TERRAIN
 Your theatre of operations is made up of geological formations
 and conditions that can work either for or against you,
 depending on your strategic ability.  This means you not only
 have to outfox the enemy, but you also have to be aware of you
 geological surroundings to avoid problems with the terrain.
  At the very least, you should be aware of the following
 features:

     RIDGES:  The Arcticfox can drive up and over this type of
 terrain to obtain strategic viewpoints and hide from the enemy.
  Best of all, ridges are fun to drive over.  On the negative
 side, however, because ridges provide better views of the
 surrounding area, the enemy tends to install strategic gun
 and radar emplacements there.

     CREVICES:  Driving into crevices in not recommended,
 since it spells death for the Arcticfox and the end of the game.

     MUD FLATS:  The Arcticfox behaves unpredictably on mud flats.
  In particular, the rear of the tank has a tendency to slid,
 making steering and stopping less accurate than it is on snow
 or ice. You should be especially careful around crevices when
 driving on a mud flat.

     SNOW FIELDS:  The Arcticfox is slowed down by snow (by a
 factor of about 50%), but so is the enemy.

     ROCKS:  Watch out for the enemy hiding behind rocks. On
 the other hand, you can use rock to hide from the enemy.

     MOUNTAINS:  You can use the larger mountains as landmarks
 to give you a better sense of where you are.

     FORCE FIELD:  The enemy force field is impossible to
 drive through.  The force field appears as a red line on the
 ground and on the radar screen.

     WEATHER:  Watch for lightning and blizzards.  As more of
 the oxygen is converted, the sky becomes darker and lightning
 more prevalent.  Blizzards can cause a whiteout, resulting in
 partial loss of visibility for both you and the enemy.
  Nevertheless, radar will still function properly.  Note,
 however, that radar will not function in a lightning storm.
  Fog looks similar to a blizzard except that there are no
 snowfields and it dissipates more quickly.

ENEMY RESOURCES
(SEE F1)

STRATEGY AND TACTICS

1. It is inadvisable to stand in one spot during battle.  Keep
 moving if you can.  One way of doing this is to use Relative
 Reverse, which causes Arcticfox to follow its last command.

2. Dropping mines is one of the most effective ways of dealing
 with ground units.

3. Destroying the Communications Fort will make it impossible
 for Recon Sleds and Recon Flyers to reveal your position.
 This will make it easier for you to approach the Main Fort
 when the time comes.

4. Destroying the enemy's oxygen converters will reduce the
 rate of oxygen conversion, giving you more time to succeed
 in your mission.

5. Following the force field protects one side of the Arcticfox.

6. Make sure you reserve at least 2 gulded missiles and/or
 10 cannon shells for the last stand against the Main Fort.

SKILL LEVELS

In the training mode, you have access to these special features:

F1 TURBO - Arcticfox moves at 400 kph: missiles at 800 kph
 (toggle)
F2 INVISIBILITY - Arcticfox can't be spotted by enemy (toggle)
F3 BLIZZARD - Starts / Stops a blizzard (toggle)
F4 STORMS - Starts / Stops lightning storms (toggle)
F5 JUMP UP - Arcticfox jumps up into the air, then back down
F6 BIG RADAR MAP - View all 8 sectors adjacent to your
 location (toggle)
F7 SMART BOMB - Destroys all aliens in your sector
F8 BIG SCREEN MISSILE - Use main screen for missile view
 (toggle: works on all levels)
F9 TOUGH FOX - Renders Arcticfox indestructible (toggle)
F10 COCKPIT OFF - Hides all the cockpit instruments (toggle)

In tournament Mode, you have the option to choose your enemy
 configuration and starting location thought additional
 keyboard prompts, or you can ask the computer to make the
 selection. Also the enemy's Recon Flyers are equipped with
 a tracking device in Tournament Mode-and they won't hesitate
 to use it against you.

CONTROLLING ARCTICFOX

MOVEMENT - Use your joystick or mouse to control the Arcticfox's
 movement just move the device in the direction you want toe
 tank to go. In mouse mode, you can press the spacebar to
 center your mouse on the screen.  Fire your cannon by
 pressing the mouse or joystick button.  To fire repeatedly,
 hold the button down.

KEYBOARD COMMANDS -
 The keyboard layout parallels the layout of your six
 onscreen control panel buttons. (you can only use the
 number on the numeric keypad.)

CANNON INCLINATION--------------------- Q OR 7
AFT-VIEW------------------------------- W OR 8
DROP MINE------------------------------ E OR 9
RELATIVE REVERSE----------------------- A OR 4
GUIDED MISSILE------------------------- S OR 5
DIG IN--------------------------------- D OR 6

OTHER KEYBOARD COMMANDS:

RESTART GAME------------------ CONTROL - R  (ANYTIME)
SOUND ON/OFF------------------ CONTROL - S
PAUSE/RESUME------------------ ESC
EXIT MISSION EVALUATION SCREEN ANY KEY
