  
                                  ZOOL 2
                                  ------

             Typed By Craig/Crystal and edited by Codetapper!


LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
--------------------
Commodore Amiga/Amiga 1200

1. Insert your ZOOL 2 game disk 1 into the default disk drive.
2. Plug your joystick into port number 2.
3. Turn on your computer and monitor.
4. Follow any on-screen instructions.


THE STORY SO FAR
----------------
Once again we find the Nth dimension under attack from the forces of Krool.
But this time it's worse than ever.

Unhappy with Zool's wreaking mission on his last escapade, the evil Krool
has sent Mental Block, his morphing henchman, in person (?) and he's going
to morph himself stupid to make sure this adventure is one the ninjas are
never going to forget.

In Zool 2, you can choose to play the part of either Zool or his female
companion Zooz, who have been entrusted with the restoration of the
equilibrium and expulsion of Mental Block and his cronies.  Zoon the
intergalactic wonderdog is on hand to assist you.  You're going to need him
too!  Mental Block's got quite a head start on you and there's been some
real double dealing going on around here.

There's some fowl play going down at Swan Lake, some forked tongue
double-dealing at Snaking Pass and what he's been up to on Bulberry Hill is
just shocking!  All this along with Mount Ices frozen food horrors, the
Curse of the Paraoh at Tooting Common, plus Mental Block's own Crazy House,
means you'd better keep tight hold of your senses and set the controls for
maximum weirdness.  Things round here definitely ain't what they used to
be!


OPTIONS SCREEN
--------------
To highlight a particular option, use up and down on the joystick and press
Fire to alter its value when it is highlighted.  To quit the Options
Screen, move down to Start, at the bottom and press the Fire button.

The options will affect the game in the following way:

Difficulty:     Easy, Medium or Hard.  This will affect the amount of
                time you have to complete each world and the number
                of lives you have.

Sound:          Allows you to select music or sound FX.

One/Two Player: Alone or with a friend?  Play alternately: one Zool,
                the other Zooz, or both Zool or both Zooz.  The 
                choice is yours.


ZOOL/ZOOZ CHOOSE SCREEN
-----------------------
Just before the game begins, you will see a screen asking you which
character you want to play.  To pick either Zool or Zooz, move the joystick
left or right and press the fire button to start the game.


PLAYING THE GAME
----------------
Once you have set up the options the way you want them, go to Exit at the
bottom of the screen and press the Fire button and you will go back to the
Main Screen.  From here you press Fire button once more to commence the
game.

All of your ninja's actions are controlled by using the joystick.  As well
as all of the old Zool favourites there's a couple of new moves he's
learned whilst he's been away.  Zooz has some moves of her own too, so she
can get round in a different manner to her ninja companion.


CONTROLS
--------
Controls for Zool/Zooz:


        1              1.  Climb up walls / Jump Vertically
    8   |   2          2.  Jump Diagonally Right
     \  |  /           3.  Run Right
      \ | /            4.  Slide Right
 7<-----o----->3       5.  Climb down walls / Crouch
      / | \            6.  Slide Left
     /  |  \           7.  Run Left
    6   |   4          8.  Jump Diagonally Left
        5

Fire Button:    Press this to allow Zool or Zooz to fire bullets.

Back Flip:      Hold down the Fire button and run into a wall, for a back 
                flip that will let you scale those heights when a simple 
                jump just isn't enough.

Direction:      When hanging on a column, holding down the fire button and 
                then moving left or right will allow you to crawl across 
                it.  Makes getting around so much easier!

Press Fire whilst your ninja is in the air for a devastating spinning power
jump.  This will also allow you to break through the false ceilings and
floors that abound in this world.  Zool can only go through ceilings' Zooz
can only go through floors.


RESTART POINTS
--------------
In each location there are a number of restart points to find.  Run past
these and the next time you lose a life you'll restart from this point.  So
keep a look for a red beacon that will wake up when you pass it and flash
green.


BONUS HEARTS
------------
Floating upwards, after some enemies have been despatched, are little
hearts with wings.  If your ninja can grab one before it floats out of
reach, his health will be restored by one point.


ZOOL BONUSES
------------
Of course Zool and Zooz are going to need a little help if they're to
overcome the forces of non-imagination.  Luckily some caches of smart
weapons have been hidden throughout these occupied worlds by Nth Dimension
agents.  These are just the ticket when ninjaring alone is not enough.
These are concealed in strong boxes marked with a Chuppa Chups symbol,
except the Zoon bonus, which looks like Zoon.  Break them open, with a
ninja head-butt, to reveal one of the following inside.

Bomb:        Collect this and a smart bomb will follow you around until
             you decide to use it.  Press the Space Bar and you can wave
             bye-bye to all the nasties on the screen as bomb explodes.
             You can store three of these and activate them one at a time.

Twozool:     Ying and Yang are back again, splitting your ninja into two 
             for double the action.  It may be easier to get around as 
             well.

Shield:      Makes our heroes invincible for a short period of time.

Time Bonus:  Adds valuable seconds to your total.  Could make a difference
             in that race to the finish.

1up:         An extra life.

Super Shot:  Hold down the fire button after picking up this beauty
             and you'll shoot a swirling super spinning missile which
             will take care of even the most ferocious opponent.

ChuppaChups: This life saver will restore your ninja to full health.

Zoon:        Pick up three of these and at the end of the level, you'll 
             find a special bonus level which Zoon will help you play.  
             If you don't manage to get three, don't worry - any you have 
             collected will be carried over to the next level.


FINAL DEBRIEFING
----------------
It's time to start your next mission.  Mental Block is expecting you.
Intelligence sources have supplied us with some limited information about
the worlds you are about enter, that will help you complete your mission.

You need to collect 99% of the tokens found on each level before you will
be allowed to leave it (You'll still have to overcome Mental Block,
though!)

There are false walls to break down, objects to jump on that will give you
extra spring in your step and light tubes to whizz through.

When you're seemingly on a path to nowhere flashes may provide you with
inspiration, or at least a target to shoot at (Mental Block may be able to
make some objects invisible, but he is not 100% perfect at it).

Finally snowflakes that spin may make an icy pathway.  But remember, ice
melts!

Good luck Ninja, the Nth Dimension is counting on you!
