                        F/A-18 INTERCEPTOR
                          Hints and Help

 Having problems playing F/A-18 INTERCEPTOR by Electronic Arts?
I maybe able to help you with some of them. Here is some of the hints that
I have learned myself.

 Had any problems landing on the aircraft carrier?
The best way that I found is to fly over the carrier and look down at the
carrier to see which way you have to turn around to land. It seems like I
always come in from the south of the carrier. On your final approach to the
aircraft carrier, Have your arrestor hook down, reduce thrust to 50
percent, landing gears down, and turn on your brakes in this order before
you land. When you hit the runway, hit the F1 key to reduce your thrust to
10 percent. It will stop faster. After the plane stops hit F1 again to turn
thrust off.

 The other problem I had at first, was to drop the rescue pod close enough
to the downed pilot.
To get this one, I had to fly low to the water. About 100 feet or less
above the water. When you get close enough to the pilot, change your radar
range to 2 miles and you will soon see the dot on the radar when you are in
the 2 mile range of the pilot. The little dot shaped plane reach almost all
the way over the dot of the pilot, That is when you eject the rescue pod.

The last and worst problem I had was trying to figure out how to pass or 
finish the sixth mission in INTERCEPTOR. I tried playing it different ways
and still could not figure it out. So I called Electronic Arts to find the
answer. Here is how to pass it.
You fly to the sub-carrier under 100 feet above water. Do not engage enemy
planes at this time, just keep going with your AFTERBURNERS turned on.
It is best to have your thrust 100 percent, plus you hit F10 again to turn
on the AFTERBURNERS to fly faster. You will be pressing for time at this
point. Before you reach the sub-carrier, activate your AMRAAM missile. You
will have to use AMRAAM missile only. Sidewinders will not work to
complete this mission. When you reach the sub, go up to 500-1000 feet in
the air. You have to hit the CONING TOWER on the sub-carrier with AMRAAM
missiles. This is some what tricky to do. When you see smoke coming from
the CONING TOWER, then you got it at this point. If it hits a different
part of the sub, and you see smoke; You still cannot finish the mission
unless you hit the tower. I have tried other ways and still could not
finish the mission. After you hit the tower, you engage and terminate the
enemy planes. Land on your aircraft carrier to refuel and rearm your
F/A-18. Takeoff and head back to the sub-carrier and you should see 1 or 2
more enemy planes, engage and destroy them. Then head home to your carrier
and land. Your mission should be completed then. If you do anything
different then what I told you for mission #6, then it may not work.
 If someone has any comments, ideas, hints, or help, let me know.

                                          by

                                          Ryan Heinig
