





                  Software Presents Part 1 of the UMS Docs
                     Thanks once again to DR.J (U.S.A.)

                      THE UNIVERSAL MILITARY SIMULATOR

                            By Rainbird Software

FORWARD

Originally,  the  "Universal Military Simulator" was just the working  title 
for  a  very  unusual piece of software.   That was about  15,000  lines  of 
computer code ago.

Simply put,  the program you just purchased will simulate a conflict between 
any  two  opposing forces,  from history or fantasy,  displayed on  a  three 
dimensional battlefield that can be viewed from any perspective,  while  you 
zoom in on the action, command the smallest unit and change any variable.

Of course there's more.   The Design Map section will help you create  three 
dimensional maps of anything you wish:  battlefields,  D & D worlds, castles 
or maps for reports.  If you're out of ideas UMS will even randomly generate 
maps for you.

The Create Army section will allow you to design armies of any  description.  
The Universal Military Simulator comes with 18 pre-defined unit types,  from 
charioteers  to  armored  cavalry.   If that isn't  enough  you  can  create 
"wildcard units" with the characteristics you wish.

The  Create Scenario function will help you put any two armies  together  on 
any battlefield.   Literally,  any two armies.  It is possible, for example. 
to simulate a conflict between Alexander and Napoleon with their  respective 
troops  on the fields of Gettysburg.   Again,  your imagination is the  only 
limitation.

UMS  also  possesses  a  unique  Artificial  Intelligence  that  "perceives" 
opposing armies as geometric shapes and interconnecting lines of force while 
individual fighting units are maneuvered as a cohesive army striving towards 
a  common  goal.   Furthermore the 14 actual variables evaluated by  UMS  to 
resolve combat may be viewed by the user after all hostile contacts  thereby 
eliminating "the fog of war" that other wargames hide behind.

Over  seven  years in the making,  the Universal Military  Simulator  is  as 
revolutionary  as it is evolutionary.   UMS will certainly be  the  standard 
that all wargames are measured by for many years to come.


                        CHAPTER I - GETTING STARTED

THE MAIN MENU

The  Universal  Military Simulator consists of four sections that  help  the 
user  create new maps,  design armies,  create new battle scenarios and  run 
battle  simulations.   These sections are accessed from the main  menu  that 
first appears after running the program.   To select a section, position the 
arrow cursor over the desired box and click the left mouse button once.

To  terminate  the program select QUIT.   You will be returned  to  the  GEM 
desktop.   To create new armies, or to edit an army that has been previously 
saved  to  disk,  select  DESIGN ARMY.   The  Universal  Military  Simulator 
contains  a  powerful three-dimensional typographical design  tool  that  is 
accessed by selecting DESIGN MAP.   This function is not limited to creating 
battlefields,  but may be used to design maps of all kinds including fantasy 
worlds  from  role-playing  games  and  computer  text  adventures.   CREATE 
SCENARIO  allows the user to place two armies from any time period  together 
on  a  field  of  battle.   There are  virtually  no  restrictions  and  the 
combinations are nearly infinite.   Selecting RUN SIMULATION allows the user 
to participate as the Universal Military Simulator's Artificial Intelligence 
routines  supervise the conflict.   The user may play against  the  program, 
against another human opponent,  or even influence the computer's  decisions 
while viewing the battlefield in complete 3-D.


                     CHAPTER II - RUNNING A SIMULATION

THE SELECTION SIMULATION MENU

The  Universal  Military Simulator disk contains  five  battle  simulations.  
They are: ARBELA, the battle that decided the conquest of Asia Minor, fought 
in 331 B.C.  between Alexander the Great and Darius of Persia; HASTINGS, the 
great clash of the Medieval Ages between two claimants to the English throne 
in  1066;  MARSTON MOOR where Oliver Cromwell saved the  young  Parliament's 
Army;  WATERLOO,  the last card played from the Emperor Napoleon's hand  and 
GETTYSBURG,  where  General  Robert E.  Lee's Confederate Army  of  Northern 
Virginia  reached their highwater mark under the summer Pennsylvanian  skies 
of  1863.   To select a scenario click the left mouse button once  over  the 
desired simulation.

Other  scenarios from Universal Military Simulator Scenario Disks,  or  user 
created scenarios, may be read from disk by selecting the READ SCENARIO FROM 
DISK option.   After clicking the left mouse button once over this option  a 
dialog  box  will appear requesting that the user specify a  disk  drive  by 
clicking  the left mouse button once over the appropriate  drive  box.   Two 
floppy disks and two hard drives are supported.  Double click the left mouse 
button over the desired file.  Selecting CANCEL returns to the last menu.

THE BATTLEFIELD WINDOW

The Universal Military Simulator take full advantage of the GEM capabilities 
of the Atari ST.  The battlefield window contains drop-down menus (discussed 
in detail in the following pages), a close box located in the upper lefthand 
corner of the window, and dialog boxes that appear throughout the simulation 
to  receive user input.   At the bottom of the window two status  lines  are 
displayed  that  indicate the  current  three-dimensional  perspective,  the 
current simulation time (in military time) and the present 'active army'  or 
side that is currently capable of receiving commands and firing weapons.

Clicking  the  left  mouse button once inside the close  box  will  end  the 
simulation after the program has confirmed the user's intentions.

THE SCENARIO PHASES

The  RUN SIMULATION section is divided into two phases:  the  ISSUE  COMMAND 
PHASE  in  which orders are given by the user to all desired units  of  both 
armies and which is terminated by selecting END COMMAND PHASE from the drop-
down  menu or by pressing the letter Q on the keyboard;  and  the  MOVEMENT/ 
BATTLE  PHASE.   At  the  end of the COMMAND PHASE the  user  is  requested, 
through  a  series of dialog boxes,  to select the desired  computer  battle 
logic.  (For more information see the Battle Logic section in this chapter.)  
The MOVEMENT/BATTLE phase is divided into eight equal  segments.   Selecting 
NEXT  SEGMENT  from the drop-down menus,  or pressing the letter  N  on  the 
keyboard will advance the scenario time and update the  battlefield.   After 
the MOVEMENT/BATTLE phase is completed the COMMAND PHASE is repeated.

THE DROP-DOWN BATTLEFIELD MENU

Located  at the top of the battlefield GEM window are six  drop-down  menus.  
All  functions of the Universal Military Simulator may be  accessed  through 
these  menus.   Many  functions  may also be activated  by  a  corresponding 
keystroke.   The  left most menu,  FILENAMES,  when selected,  displays  the 
actual  filenames  used for storing the maps,  scenario and armies  for  the 
current  simulation.   This  information  is quite helpful  when  editing  a 
scenario.   Three-dimensional viewing perspective is controlled by the drop-
down menus underneath NORMAL and ZOOM IN.   Moving the mouse over any of the 
titles above the window will cause the drop down menu to  appear.   Clicking 
the  left  mouse  button over a highlighted item will cause the  map  to  be 
redrawn  within  the  battlefield  window  from  the  perspective  selected.  
Selecting NORTH, for example, will create a map drawn from the point of view 
of someone south of the battlefield looking North.   Selecting a perspective 
from the ZOOM IN menu will draw a map with a  corresponding close in  aerial 
perspective.

The  EXTREME  ZOOM IN menu controls highly magnified viewing of  a  selected 
areas.   Selecting  the  item EXTREME ZOOM IN under the  menu  heading  will 
create a flashing 10 grid point by 10 grid point box.   (Color monitors will 
also  show  woods  and unit directions arrows in  reverse.)   This  flashing 
square  is under the control of the mouse.   Any directional change  of  the 
mouse  will be immediately copied by the flashing grid.   Clicking the  left 
mouse  button  will  cause  the map area beneath  the  grid  to  be  greatly 
magnified.   Clicking  the right mouse button will cancel this function  and 
restore the map.  After EXTREME ZOOM IN has been activated the enlarged area 
may be scrolled by either selecting the desired direction from the drop-down 
menu or by pressing the four cursor arrow keys on th right hand side of  the 
keyboard.  Pressing and holding an arrow key will cause the screen to scroll 
continuously  in  indicated  direction  until  the  border  of  the  map  is 
encountered.  (IMPORTANT: to avoid confusion only movement arrows that begin 
and end within the zoomed in area are displayed.)  AUTOMATIC ZOOM works like 
a toggle switch and may be turned on or off.  When AUTOMATIC ZOOM is enabled 
the  computer  will automatically zoom in on any important activity  on  the 
battlefield during the simulation.   A check mark (tick) indicates that  the 
function is on.

The BATTLE menu contains many of the functions required to fully utilize the 
Universal Military Simulator.  Selecting ISSUE COMMANDS TO UNITS either from 
the  drop-down menu or by pressing the space bar on the keyboard  will allow 
the  user to give specific commands to each unit on the  battlefield.   This 
function  is discussed in complete detail in the  following  pages.   SWITCH 
SIDES  is  used in conjunction with ISSUE COMMANDS to select which  army  is 
currently  active or capable of receiving commands.   This 'active' side  is 
shown in the display at the bottom of the battlefield window.   SWITCH SIDES 
is  also  used  in conjunction with FIRE RANGED  WEAPONS  to  select  firing 
targets.  Again, the 'active', or firing, army is displayed at the bottom of 
the  window.   Selecting  END  COMMAND PHASE,  either from the  menu  or  by 
pressing  Q on the keyboard signals the program that the user has moved  all 
desired  units.   See the Battle Logic section in this chapter for  complete 
information.   The  FIRE RANGED WEAPONS function (which becomes  operational 
after  selecting the END COMMAND PHASE) allows the user to fire  units  with 
long  range  capabilities.   This is discussed later in this  chapter  under 
Combat.  The SAVE SIMULATION function is activated from either the drop-down 
menu  or  by pressing the letter S from the keyboard.   After  entering  the 
desired  filename,  select the drive for storage by clicking the left  mouse 
button over the appropriate letter box.   To restore a saved simulation  use 
the  READ FROM DISK option on the previous menu.   All simulation files  end 
with the .SIM extension.

A hard copy print out of the battlefield window may be obtained by selecting 
PRINT  MAP from the drop-down menu or by pressing P on  the  keyboard.   The 
Universal  Military  Simulator supports both the Atari 1280 line  format  or 
Epson 960 dots per inch format.   Select the desired format by clicking  the 
left mouse button over the appropriate box.   The user may also add one line 
of text at the top of the printout.

After  hard  copy  printout  has  been  'formatted'  using  this   function, 
additional  screen prints may be made at any time throughout the program  by 
pressing the ALT and HELP keys simultaneously.   The ORDER OF BATTLE command 
will display all units currently within an army.   If the display  continues 
for more that one screen,  pressing the left mouse button will show the next 
page of units;  pressing the right mouse button will cancel the display  and 
return the user to the simulation.

The  DISPLAY OPTIONS MENU allows the user to control the features  that  are 
displayed on the battlefield map.  The options are 'toggle switches' and may 
be  turned  either on or off.   A check mark indicates that  the  option  is 
active.   The  options  are:  BATTLE MARKERS,  which indicate  points  where 
hostile contact between units has occured,  MOVEMENT ARROWS,  which indicate 
the  future  movement of all units,  TOWNS & LANDMARKS that mark  points  of 
interest  on the battlefield,  WHITE FLAGS and BLACK FLAGS which  will  hide 
from view one or both armies, and FAST DISPLAY MODE.  When FAST DISPLAY MODE 
has  been  toggled on,  the Universal Military Simulator will  only  briefly 
display  contact  between hostile units and computer-controlled  long  range 
fire.   This considerably speeds up the viewing time of a  simulation.   For 
more information see the section on Combat later in this chapter.

DEMONSTRATION MODE

Selecting  DEMONSTRATION MODE instructs the Universal Military Simulator  to 
take over all army command functions and viewing perspectives.   To activate 
DEMONSTRATION  MODE press the CONTROL key and the letter D on  the  keyboard 
simultaneously.  A warning box will appear to confirm this choice.

DEMONSTRATION  MODE  can  be activated at any time  during  any  simulation, 
including  user-designed simulations.   The five simulations that come  with 
the  Universal  Military  Simulator,  however,  will  automatically  receive 
special  instructions to recreate the actual battles.   These  battles  will 
follow the guidelines as described in Appendix A.

ISSUE COMMANDS

All  units participating in a scenario may be given specific  commands  that 
control  the  unit's movement and status.   The ISSUE COMMANDS  function  is 
activated  either from the drop-down menu or by pressing the keyboard  space 
bar.   After  selecting this option the COMMAND BOX appears and  the  active 
unit's  vital  information  is displayed along the left  hand  side  of  the 
battlefield window.   A copy of the unit's flag is also displayed surrounded 
by  the  eight compass directions.   If AUTOMATIC ZOOM has  previously  been 
selected the area immediately around the active unit will be  enlarged.   To 
move  a  unit either click the left mouse button over  the  desired  compass 
direction box or position the mouse cross-hairs over the intersection  point 
on the map.   Units move from adjacent point to another.   To scroll the map 
(when  in  EXTREME ZOOM) click the left mouse button  over  the  appropriate 
arrow  key in the lower right hand corner of the battlefield  window.   NEXT 
UNIT  and LAST UNIT will de-activate the current unit and  activate  another 
unit for commands.  Pressing the right mouse button will also advance to the 
next unit.   QUIT erases the COMMAND BOX.   If AUTOMATIC ZOOM has previously 
been  selected  the  map  will be redrawn  to  that  last  full  perspective 
selected.

A unit may also be ordered to assume one of the following statuses: MANEUVER 
(which allows for maximum movement but leaves the unit vulnerable to  attack 
and defense),  ATTACK (which reduces a unit's mobility but greatly increases 
its value in battle),  DEFEND (which halts all further movement by the  unit 
but increases the unit's ability to withstand attack), and RESERVE (the unit 
may not move,  and is vulnerable to attack; however the unit's morale factor 
will be increased after one full eight segment movement phase).

BATTLE LOGIC

To access the Universal Simulator's Battle Logic,  select END COMMAND  PHASE 
after all desired units and commands have been made.  The Universal Military 
Simulator  may be instructed to assume command of either one or both  armies 
or run in a 'supervisory' mode and simply referee the simulation and  decide 
the  outcome of contact between hostile units.   The first dialog  box  that 
appears  after  selecting END COMMAND PHASE requests that  the  user  assign 
commanders for both the black and white armies.   If both armies are  placed 
under  HUMAN COMMAND the Universal Military Simulator will not  request  any 
further information and will activate the MOVEMENT PHASE.   Selecting either 
NEXT  SEGMENT  from  the  drop-down menu or pressing the  letter  N  on  the 
keyboard will 'step' the units on the battlefield to their ordered positions 
and increase the time appropriately.

If,  however,  either  army is placed under COMPUTER CONTROL  the  Universal 
Military Simulator will display a series of dialog boxes requesting specific 
instructions,  or limitations,  for the command of those forces.  The BATTLE 
LOGIC dialog box is now displayed.   Any one of the following options may be 
selected:  ALLOW  COMPUTER  TO DECIDE STRATEGY (the computer will  make  the 
decision  to  attack or defend after analyzing over 10 factors per  unit  in 
both armies), FORCE COMPUTER TO ATTACK (the computer will decide and execute 
the  attack  with the greatest probability of success),  FORCE  COMPUTER  TO 
DEFEND (the computer will not attack but will assume the defensive,  and, if 
possible,  move units to a more secure position),  LEFT FLANK,  RIGHT FLANK, 
ATTACK  IN  CENTER  and DOUBLE ENVELOPMENT  require the  Universal  Military 
Simulator  to execute the desired attack plan.   LEFT FLANK and RIGHT  FLANK 
attacks  may  also be supported by the opposite half if  the  army.   Dialog 
boxes are displayed to receive user input.

Click the left mouse button over CONTINUE,  or press RETURN on the keyboard, 
to  continue.   CANCEL de-activates the BATTLE LOGIC and allows the user  to 
give orders to units.   IMPORTANT: The Universal Military Simulator's Battle 
Logic will not move units that have already received commands from the user.  
This  allows  for the movement of some specific units while  the  rest  will 
receive computer orders.

COMBAT

Combat  occurs  during the  MOVEMENT PHASE when units from  opposing  armies 
move onto adjacent points.   Some units have long range weapons  (artillery, 
armor  and  archers,  for  example) and can enter  into  combat  at  greater 
distances.  See the Fire Ranged Weapons section in this chapter for details.  
When  combat  occurs the two opposing units flash.   If AUTOMATIC  ZOOM  has 
previously been selected the area immediately surrounding the combat will be 
greatly  enlarged.   If FAST DISPLAY MODE had previously been  selected  the 
units will flash 20 times and the results of combat calculated.   No  combat 
results  will be displayed,  however,  and the Universal Military  Simulator 
will continue moving units and updating the battlefield map as previous.

If FAST DISPLAY MODE had not been previously selected the two hostile  units 
will continue to flash until the right mouse button is pressed.   The  vital 
statistics  of  each unit and the combat results are now  displayed  on  the 
screen.  Clicking the left mouse button in SEE EQUATION box will display the 
values  and equation used by the Universal Military Simulator  to  determine 
this  particular combat result.   Starting with the original unit  strength, 
eight different modifiers are evaluated.  NOTE: A retreat path is calculated 
for the losing unit, and displayed.

FIRE RANGED WEAPONS

The FIRE RANGED WEAPONS routine is activated from either the drop-down  menu 
or  by  pressing  F  on  the  keyboard.    It  is  only  active  during  the 
MOVEMENT/BATTLE  PHASE.   If  both  armies are under  COMPUTER  CONTROL  the 
Universal  Military Simulator will make all Ranged Weapon firing  decisions.  
The  army  capable  of receiving firing instructions  is  indicated  in  the 
display  at the bottom of the battlefield window.   The active army  may  be 
changed  by selecting SWITCH SIDES from the drop-down  menu.   If  AUTOMATIC 
ZOOM has previously been selected,  the area directly surrounding the active 
unit will be greatly magnified.   IMPORTANT:  do not use the AUTOMATIC  ZOOM 
function when issuing firing orders to units with a firing range of  greater 
than five; it may be impossible to select the desired targets.

The  FIRE  RANGED WEAPONS box is now displayed.   Clicking  the  left  mouse 
button over the NEXT UNIT or LAST UNIT will de-activate the current unit and 
activate  the  next appropriate unit in the army.   Only  units  capable  or 
ranged weapon fire will be activated.   To select a target, locate the mouse 
cross-hairs  over the grid-point where the enemy unit is located  and  press 
the left mouse button.   An arrow is drawn and the results are displayed  at 
the  bottom of the screen.   This function may be repeated until  all  units 
under  HUMAN  CONTROL have fired.   A unit may fire only once  per  movement 
segment, or a total of eight times per MOVEMENT/BATTLE PHASE.

ANALYSIS OF BATTLE TO DATE & FINAL BATTLE ANALYSIS

At  the  end  of the MOVEMENT/BATTLE PHASE the ANALYSIS OF  BATTLE  TO  DATE 
screen  is displayed showing an updated casualty and battle  report.   After 
clicking  the left mouse button in the CONTINUE box a message  is  displayed 
indicating that the COMMAND PHASE is again active.   When the simulation has 
reached  the previously designated end time,  or when all units from  either 
army have been eliminated, the FINAL BATTLE ANALYSIS screen is displayed.  A 
hard copy of all units,  from both armies and the last unit strengths may be 
printed if desired.  The user may return to the Battlefield Window or to the 
MAIN MENU by clicking the left mouse button over the desired box.


                     CHAPTER III - CREATING NEW ARMIES

THE UNIT SELECTION MENU

The UNIT SELECTION MENU is displayed after selecting the DESIGN ARMY  option 
from  the MAIN MENU and either selecting an old army to edit or  entering  a 
new  army  name and pressing RETURN.   Clicking the left mouse  button  over 
CANCEL will return the user to the MAIN MENU.  This section of the Universal 
Military  Simulator  allows  the  user  to create  new  armies  for  use  in 
simulations,  or  to modify existing armies.   Selecting QUIT from the  UNIT 
SELECTION MENU will return the user to the MAIN MENU.   A previously created 
army  may  be loaded and edited by clicking the left mouse button  over  the 
LOAD box.   The user is requested to select a drive.  The Universal Military 
Simulator supports two floppy disk drives and two hard drives.  Double click 
the  left  mouse button over the desired filename.   Selecting  CANCEL  will 
return the user to the UNIT SELECTION MENU.   To save an army to disk  click 
the left mouse button over the SAVE box.   Enter the filename and click  the 
left mouse button over the desired drive.   All Universal Military Simulator 
filenames  end with the .ARM file extension.   Selecting CANCEL will  return 
the  user to the UNIT SELECTION MENU without saving the army file  to  disk.  
To  enter a new unit to an army click the left mouse button over the  desire 
flag.

ENTERING A UNIT'S VITAL STATISTICS

The  Universal Military simulator stores a great deal of data on  each  unit 
used  in a simulation.   Some  items  (morale,  status,  location,  marching 
orders)  are acquired during a simulation,  or at the time the  scenario  is 
created (see the chapter on Creating a Scenario for details).   The rest  is 
entered at the time that the unit is created.

Enter all items requested at this time.  To change a unit's efficiency click 
the left mouse button over the box containing the desired rating.  Click the 
left  mouse button over CANCEL to return to the UNIT SELECTION MENU  without 
saving the unit.   To advance to the next line press either TAB or  position 
the mouse cursor over the desired line and click the left mouse button once.  
After all data has been entered,  click the left mouse button over CONTINUE.  
If the user has neglected to enter all necessary data the Universal Military 
Simulator  will  display a gentle error message and return to  this  screen.  
The entire army's ORDER OF BATTLE is now displayed.  If there are more units 
within the army than can be displayed on one screen, pressing the left mouse 
button  will continue to the next screen.   Pressing the right mouse  button 
will cancel the display and return to the UNIT SELECTION MENU.

ORDER OF BATTLE

An  army's ORDER OF BATTLE is a graphic depiction of each unit  within  that 
army  and the accompanying vital statistics.   The ORDER OF BATTLE  function 
may be activated from the drop-down menu in the BATTLEFIELD WINDOW, from the 
UNIT  SELECTION  MENU  or  automatically after  a  unit  has  been  created.  
Pressing the left mouse button will continue the display; pressing the right 
mouse  button will cancel the display and return to the  previous  activity.  
The ORDER OF BATTLE is continuously updated during a simulation and reflects 
the current unit strengths.

EDITING A UNIT

Selecting  EDIT UNIT from the UNIT SELECTION MENU allows the user to  change 
the vital statistics of a previously created unit.   Clicking the left mouse 
button  over the NEXT UNIT or LAST UNIT boxes will de-activate  the  current 
unit and replace it with the requested unit.   Selecting CANCEL will  return 
to  the  SELECT UNIT MENU.   A unit may be removed from the army's ORDER  OF 
BATTLE  by  clicking  the left mouse button in the  DELETE  UNIT  box.   The 
Universal  Military simulator will request confirmation before removing  the 
unit.   Unless  the deleted unit had been previously stored to disk it  will 
now  be irretrievably lost.   Click the left mouse button over EDIT UNIT  to 
change any of the vital statistics.  The window will now display all current 
statistics of the unit and they may be edited using the method described  on 
the  previous page.   Selecting CANCEL will return the user to the  previous 
menu  without storing any edited statistics.   Select CONTINUE to  keep  the 
data for the edited unit.

CREATING A WILDCARD UNIT

An  army may contain up to six 'wildcard' or user-defined units in  addition 
to the 18 pre-defined units.   A wildcard unit may be any type that the user 
needs  or can invent.   A wildcard unit may be defined,  for example,  as  a 
squadron of B-52 bombers,  a wizard,  or an air cavalry company.   The  only 
limitations to a wildcard unit is the user's imagination.

A wildcard is selected from the UNIT SELECTION MENU in the normal manner  by 
clicking the left mouse button over the desired unit.   Enter the UNIT  TYPE 
data  from the keyboard.   To enter the UNIT VALUE data either press TAB  or 
click the left mouse button over the field.   The UNIT VALUE is a rating  of 
the firepower of this unit type.  Some of the default unit values are:

          Unit Type                   Unit Value
          --------------------------------------
          Light Infantry                   .75
          Heavy Infantry                  1.0
          Archers                         2.75
          Knights                         4.5
          Armor                          15.5

Once  a wildcard's values have been defined,  all subsequent units  of  this 
type  will  automatically acquire them.   It is only necessary to  define  a 
wildcard's values once.

Each  army  may have six different wildcards;  consequently a  scenario  may 
contain 12 wildcards (six wildcards each from two armies).   An army may  be 
created entirely from wildcards.


                       CHAPTER IV - CREATING NEW MAPS

THE DESIGN MAP WINDOW

The  Universal  Military  Simulator contains  a  powerful  three-dimensional 
mapping  utility  that is accessed from the MAIN MENU by clicking  the  left 
mouse button over the DESIGN MAP box.  The user may create virtually any map 
from history,  fiction,  adventure or fantasy.   These maps may be used as a 
battlefield  within  the  universal  Military  Simulator  and   role-playing 
adventures.

The  filename of the map currently being designed is displayed near the  top 
of the window.  Clicking the left mouse button in the upper left hand corner 
CLOSE  BOX  will  end  the  map  designing  function.   The  current  three-
dimensional perspective is displayed at the bottom of the window.   A series 
of drop-down menus are at the top of the window and are activated by  moving 
the mouse cursor over the titles and clicking the left mouse button over the 
desired item.  Many of the drop-down menu functions may also be activated by 
an appropriate keypress.

THE DESIGN MAP DROP-DOWN MENUS

Clicking the left mouse button over the NEW MAP item will erase the  current 
map.   The  filename displayed at the top of the window will be the  default 
NEW MAP.   All Universal Military Simulator map files end with the extension 
.MAP.   Sixteen  different  perspectives amy be selected  with  the  options 
underneath the NORMAL and ZOOM IN titles.  Selecting Northeast, for example, 
will  cause  the map to be redrawn from the viewer  perspective  of  someone 
southwest of the map looking northeast.  Selecting EXTREME ZOOM will cause a 
flashing  10  grid  point by 10 grid point box that  is  controlled  by  the 
movement  of  the  mouse.   Pressing the left mouse button  will  cause  the 
highlighted area to be greatly magnified.   Pressing the right mouse  button 
will  cancel  the EXTREME ZOOM function.   Selecting PRINT or  pressing  the 
letter  P on the keyboard allows the user to obtain a hard copy printout  of 
the current map and perspective.   The Universal Military Simulator supports 
both  the  Atari  1280 D.P.I printer and the Epson standard  of  960  D.P.I.  
Select  the  desired  format  by clicking the left  mouse  button  over  the 
appropriate box.   The user may also add one line of text at the top of  the 
printout.   After  hard  copy  printout  has  been  'formatted'  using  this 
function,  additional screen prints may be made at any time  throughout  the 
program  by  pressing the ALT and HELP keys  simultaneously.   A  previously 
created map that has been stored to disk may be edited by using the LOAD MAP 
function selected from either the drop-down menu or by pressing the letter L 
on the keyboard.  A map may be stored on disk by selecting SAVE MAP from the 
menu or pressing S on the keyboard.   both functions support two floppy disk 
drives  and two hard drives.   Selecting CANCEL during either function  will 
return the user to the MAP DESIGN WINDOW.

THE TOPOGRAPHICAL MENU

The  topographical  menu  is  displayed after a  map  grid  point  has  been 
selected.   The active map grid point is highlighted by a  three-dimensional 
cube.   A large section of the map can be activated by clicking and dragging 
the mouse from one grid point to another.

All topographical features can be PLACED or CLEARED.   Click the left  mouse 
button  over the desired window.   All highlighted grid points will  receive 
the selected landscape feature.

When entering a landmark,  click the left mouse button over the text line of 
the desired landmark type, enter text and press RETURN when done.

THE RANDOM MAP FUNCTION

Random  maps can be generated by selecting this function from the  drop-down 
menu.  Hills, Ridges, Depressions and Forests can all be computer generated.  
For each item either enter a minimum and maximum number of select RANDOM for 
a completely random number of features.   CLUMPING controls the way that the 
features  appear  on the map.   A very low number will  create  a  scattered 
pattern,  higher numbers create a more ordered landscape.  The default value 
is three.  Calculating time is proportional to the complexity of the map.
If  OVERLAY  is  off (default) the old map is erased before  a  new  one  is 
generated.   When OVERPLAY is on (highlighted) the old map is not destroyed, 
but overlayed with a new random map.

SELECTING TOWNS & LANDMARKS

The Landmarks, Cities and Towns menu is reached from the Topographical Menu.  
To select the desired landmark type, click the left mouse button to the left 
of the desired landmark inside the editable text field.  Use the keyboard to 
enter any seven letter name and press RETURN when done.   Landmarks have  no 
importance  other than a historical one during a battle simulation.   A  map 
may contain 30 different landmarks.


                  CHAPTER V - CREATING & EDITING SCENARIOS

THE EDIT SCENARIO WINDOW

Scenarios  are created,  or edited,  by assigning the unit displayed in  the 
upper left hand box to a map grid point location.  This location is selected 
by  clicking the left mouse button over a map grid point.   A message  above 
the  box  indicates whether this unit currently has a location on  the  map.  
The  unit  in  the box may be changed by either  pressing  the  right  mouse 
button,  selecting  NEXT  UNIT or LAST UNIT from the drop-down  menu  or  by 
pressing the keyboard letters N or L.

Perspective may be changed selecting the desired view from either the NORMAL 
or ZOOM IN menus.   Selecting EXTREME ZOOM IN will cause a flashing 10 x  10 
grid  on the map that is controlled by the mouse.   Pressing the left  mouse 
button will greatly enlarge the area underneath the flashing  box;  pressing 
the right mouse button will cancel this function.

Select  SAVE  SIMULATION  or press the letter S on the keyboard  to  save  a 
simulation  to disk.   Enter the filename (the .SIM extension will be  added 
for  you)  and  click the left mouse button over  the  desired  disk  drive.  
Selecting  CANCEL  will  end this function  without  saving  to  disk.   The 
Simulation  Time and the Long Ranged Weapon data may be edited by  selecting 
EDIT TIME/RANGES from the drop-down menu.

Click  the left mouse button in the CLOSE BOX in the upper left hand  corner 
to end this function.

EDITING SCENARIO INFORMATION

The starting time of the simulation,  end time,  the length of segments, and 
the message that appears at the top of the Battlefield Window are entered by 
clicking the left mouse button over the appropriate text field and  entering 
the data from the keyboard.   Pressing ESC clears the line;  TAB advances to 
the  next  line.   If  an  old  simulation  is  being  edited,  the  current 
information  is displayed in the text field.   Click the left  mouse  button 
over CONTINUE when done.

A gentle reminder will be displayed if the fields are incorrectly entered or 
left blank and the user will be returned to this menu to correct the data.

EDITING RANGED WEAPON DATA

Some units may possess long range weapons capability (they are able to  fire 
at  units that are not on adjacent grid points).   These units are  Archers, 
Catapults,  Field Artillery,  Horse Artillery, Armor, or Wildcard Units.  To 
enter a range click the left mouse button over the desired text field, press 
BACKSPACE  if necessary,  and enter the data.   If a wildcard unit had  been 
previously defined,  its type will also be displayed.  The maximum effective 
range is 50 grid points.


                                 APPENDIX A

          RECREATING HISTORY WITH THE UNIVERSAL MILITARY SIMULATOR


ARBELA

To accurately recreate the battle of Arbela,  place the White Army  (Darius) 
under Computer Control and select FORCE COMPUTER TO DEFEND.  Place the Black 
Army  (Alexander) under Computer Control and select RIGHT FLANK ATTACK  with 
the SUPPORT WITH LEFT FLANK option.   This is necessary because  Alexander's 
forces  are  outnumbered  by almost a two to one margin  and  The  Universal 
Military Simulator's Battle Logic will not attack at such odds.  After about 
two  hours  of simulation time have elapsed switch the White Army  to  ALLOW 
COMPUTER  TO DECIDE STRATEGY.   A general melee will ensue now  (both  sides 
completely  controlled  by  the Universal  Military  Simulator)  that  quite 
accurately reflects that fateful day in 331 B.C.  Best viewing perspectives: 
For  the  first hour or two of simulation time select NORTHWEST ZOOM  IN  or 
NORTHEAST  ZOOM  IN and turn off the AUTOMATIC ZOOM function.   It  is  also 
advisable to put the Universal Military simulator in FAST MODE.   Within the 
first  three  hours  of combat over 125 individual  battle  will  erupt  and 
watching them all in detail can become a bit tiring.

HASTINGS

Place  both  armies  under  complete computer  control  by  selecting  ALLOW 
COMPUTER  TO  DECIDE  STRATEGY and step back  to  1066.   The  best  viewing 
perspective  for the first two or three simulation hours is  NORTHEAST  ZOOM 
IN.   Remember it is quite possible for the Normans (Black Army) to  utterly 
destroy the defending Saxons on the hill and only achieve a marginal victory 
(the  type  of  victory  is decided on a comparison  of  the  percentage  of 
casualties  for  both armies - if the Normans suffer  many  casualties  they 
could  win  the  battle  and still lose the  war).   The  armies  have  been 
accurately  recreated.   To  even  up the play-balance (at  the  expense  of 
historical  accuracy) use the EDIT ARMY function to give the Saxons  another 
2000  peasants.   Then  place  them  in position  using  the  EDIT  SCENARIO 
function.

MARSTON MOOR

Put  the  White  Army (Royalist) under Computer  Control  and  select  FORCE 
COMPUTER TO DEFEND while the Black Army (Parliament) is ordered to execute a 
DOUBLE  ENVELOPMENT.   All  of the Zoom In perspectives offer  an  excellent 
aerial view of the battlefield.   To see the Universal Military  Simulator's 
Battle  Logic  in  action,  place both armies in ALLOW  COMPUTER  TO  DECIDE 
STRATEGY  mode  and  watch how the Black Army threads its  way  through  the 
intervening ditch to attack the Royalist forces.

WATERLOO

The  Universal  Military Simulator is not aware of  the  Emperor  Napoleon's 
precarious political position and consequently must be instructed to  attack 
the seemingly impregnable positions of the Anglo-Allies by placing the Black 
Army (French) under Computer Control and selecting FORCE COMPUTER TO ATTACK.  
Leave  the  AUTOMATIC  ZOOM  on and let  the  Universal  Military  Simulator 
highlight the action as it develops.   To create a more equal play balance - 
and  to  increase Napoleon's chances of winning at Waterloo - use  the  EDIT 
ARMY function to add the French Corps described in Appendix B.


GETTYSBURG

As at Waterloo,  the political consequences of victory for the smaller  army 
greatly  outweighed  sound  strategic  thinking.   Robert  E.  Lee  and  the 
Confederate Army must win at Gettysburg even though they are outnumbered  by 
the Union Army.   To recreate Gettysburg, place the Union (White Army) under 
Computer  Control  and select FORCE COMPUTER TO  DEFEND.   The  confederates 
should  be  assigned to FORCE COMPUTER TO ATTACK.   There are  a  number  of 
exciting perspectives of the Gettysburg battlefield including ZOOM IN NORTH, 
ZOOM IN SOUTH,  and ZOOM IN NORTHEAST.   To increase the Confederate odds of 
victory add J.E.B. Stuart's cavalry corps as shown in Appendix B.