





                  Software Presents Part 2 of the UMS Docs
                     Thanks once again to DR.J (U.S.A.)

                        UNIVERSAL MILITARY SIMULATOR

                              SCENARIO HANDBOOK


ARBELA
1 October 331 B.C.
Alexander - Darius

In  334 B.C.  Alexander the Great,  son of Philip of  Macedon,  turned  his 
victorious  horsemen  and phalanxes east across the Hellespont  and  boiled 
into  Asia  Minor  to destroy the outposts of the  empire  of  Darius  III, 
commander of the mightiest army on the face of the earth.  Within two years 
Alexander  had  isolated the Persian fleets in the  Mediterranean  and  the 
Aegean  by capturing all the seaports from present day Turkey to Egypt  and 
securing his lines of communications back to his base in Macedonia.  In the 
process  Tyre,  the home port of the Persian navy,  was reduced  to  rubble 
after an extended siege and its inhabitants sold off as slaves.   By April, 
331  B.C.  Alexander,  after spurning  Darius' peace offer of  10,000  gold 
talents  ($300  million dollars),  all of the Persian Empire  west  of  the 
Euphrates and the hand of the princess royale,  was prepared to march  east 
and take it all, anyway.

Darius,  with  his infantry from Afghanistan,  Bokhara,  Khiva  and  Tibet, 
Kurdish  horsemen,  Bactrian cavalry  including ancestors of the  legendary 
Sikh warriors,  scythe wheeled chariots and war elephants waited for him on 
the plains of Gaugamela,  20 miles from Arbela (about 18 miles northeast of 
present day Mosul,  Iraq).  Persian engineers had meticulously prepared the 
ground, leveling it flat to allow the war chariots to strike out unimpeded.

On  September  25,  Macedonian  cavalry  on reconnaissance  discovered  the 
position of the great Imperial army.   Alexander,  knowing that Darius  was 
waiting for him on prepared ground, called a halt in his eastward march and 
made camp to rest his troops.   After four days Alexander called his men to 
arms  and  approached the Persian hosts.   On the night  of  September  30/ 
October 1,  Alexander crossed a slight rise that had previously hidden  the 
two  armies  from  direct  observation  of  each  other.   There  Alexander 
conducted a first hand reconnaisance of the ground and mistakenly concluded 
that the suspiciously smooth san concealed great pitfalls dug to entrap his 
cavalry.  He immediately called a council of war.

A number of Alexander's officers voted for a night assault.   But Alexander 
replied that he, "would not filch a victory and that Alexander must conquer 
openly and fairly".   It was a wise choice for the army of Darius was  wide 
awake  and waiting for the Macedonian under the cloak  of  night.   Indeed, 
while  Alexander's men rested for the next day's fight,  the  Persian  army 
remained drawn up in line of battle under arms.   The dawn would find  them 
greatly fatigued.

The positions of the forces that faced each other on the Plain of Gaugamela 
2318 years ago (1987) are precisely known and accurately portrayed  in  the 
simulation  because  Darius'  own  Order  of  Battle  and  maps  fell  into 
Macedonian  hands  after  Arbela.   These,  along  with  the  positions  of 
Alexander's  troops,  were  copied  into the  journals  of  Aristobulus,  a 
division commander in Alexander's army, and later re-copied by Arrian.
In  the center of the Persian lines stood Darius, surrounded by  the  Royal 
Kinsman whose privilege it was to guard the body of the Emperor.   Flanking 
the Kinsman were the last contingents of Greek mercenaries that had managed 
to earlier survive the crushing defeat given them by Alexander at Issus  in 
333 B.C.   In advance were the Royal Squadron supported by Mardian archers.  
200  war chariots were spread across the front in three groups and  in  the 
vanguard stood 15 elephants with their handlers and firing platforms.   The 
flanks  were supported by great masses of heavy cavalry while the  bulk  of 
the  Persian  army was composed of infantry levies from  the  satropys  and 
fiefdoms of Darius' empire.

Across  the plains Alexander had arrayed his smaller army  with  particular 
care to protect his flanks.  With forces inferior in number having to cross 
terrain prepared in advance by his enemy,  Alexander's greatest fears  were 
that Darius would overlap his lines,  and pour cavalry around his flanks in 
a  double envelopment while his ponderous war elephants would  trample  the 
famed Macedonian phalanx.   To counter this quite likely series of  events, 
Alexander took a number of precautions:   first, he left a mass of Thracian 
infantry  in  the  center some distance behind the  phalanx  (Alexander  is 
credited  with inventing the tactical reserve);  second he positioned  both 
flanks at a 45 degree angle from the main battle line; and lastly, after he 
stationed  the  eight troops of the royal horse-guard with himself  on  the 
right,  he  removed all chance of a Persian attack by striking first in  an 
oblique attack on Darius' left flank.

The Macedonian phalanx,  composed of six brigades of 3000 men each, started 
off  with  its goal the extreme left flanks of  Darius'  Bactrian  cavalry.  
Traveling  behind  the 18,000 foot-soldiers rode Alexander  and  his  famed 
Companions.   Darius stared in horror as he realized that Alexander was not 
advancing  straight ahead as he had planned.   Having made  no  contingency 
plans the best Darius was able to improvise was to send his Persian,  Daan, 
Bactrian   and  Scythian  cavalry  against  the  approaching   Macedonians.  
Alexander  had prepared for this and now ordered his  horsemen,  previously 
screened by the phalanx, to engage the enemy.  A sharp cavalry fight ensued 
with the Macedonians getting the worst of it at first.   However, the issue 
was never in doubt as Alexander's reserves were close by while the  Persian 
cavalry was engaged far in front of their lines.

After he spent all of the cavalry on his left with little observed  effect, 
Darius  ordered  his  chariots  to dash across   the  plain  and  route  the 
Macedonian phalanx.   Alexander,  having prepared for this,  sent forth his 
archers  who  cut down horses and drivers a 100 hards before  they  reached 
their intended target.

The Persian horsemen that were able to reform after the initial defeat  now 
wheeled  about and attempted to swarm around the Macedonian  right.   Again 
Alexander countered this by detaching squadrons from the Royal horse-guard.  
Darius now stripped his center of all mobile troops and threw them into the 
maelstrom that was quickly enveloping his left flank.  In so doing, a large 
gap  appeared in the Persian line that Alexander was quick to exploit  with 
his personal guard.

Meanwhile,  the Macedonian phalanx,  moved inexorably towards the Persians.  
Though  only the left half of the Persian troops had been engaged  and  the 
right still stood firm, panic began to engulf the center at the approach of 
the phalanx.   When a thrown javelin killed Darius' personal chariot driver 
he abandoned his troops,  mounted a swift horse,  fled toward  Arbela,  and 
left  his  army leaderless like a great writhing beast with a  head  wound.  
The outcome of the battle had now been decided but a great deal of  killing 
was still to be done.

Almost  as if in a reflexive motion the Persian right under the command  of 
Mazaeus  struck  out  at  the  unsupported  Macedonian  left  commanded  by 
Parmenio.   Greatly  outnumbered  Parmenio's  wing gave  ground  until  the 
Persians fell upon the Thracian rearguard and began to sack the  Macedonian 
camp.   Alexander,  seeing the chaos on his left, abandoning his pursuit of 
Darius,  and wheeling the royal horse guard ran to the support of Parmenio.  
A  less  vicious fight ensued where 60 of Alexander's  personal  guard  and 
three generals fell at the king's side.   Only a few Persians escaped  with 
their lives.

Alexander's victory was complete.   A bridge across the river Lycus created 
a  bottleneck for the fleeing Persians and the pursuing Macedonian  cavalry 
mercilessly struck down the remnants of Darius' army.

Three  days  later Alexander triumphantly entered Babylon as the  lord  and 
master of the "oldest seat of earthly empire".


                              ORDER OF BATTLE 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

                              The Macedonians
                      Alexander the Great commanding


The Phalanx
     
     troops                commander           # men       flagname
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     Taxis 1               Coenus              2,500       Taxis 1
     Taxis 2               Perdiccas           2,500       Taxis 2
     Taxis 3               Meleager            2,500       Taxis 3
     Taxis 4               Polysperchon        2,500       Taxis 4
     Taxis 6               Craterus            2,500       Taxis 6

The Cavalry
     
     troops                commander           # men       flagname
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     Mercenary Cavalry     Menidas               600       Mrchary
     Paeonian Cavalry      Ariston               459       Paeonia
     Scouts                Aretes                459       Scouts
     Greek Cavalry         Erigyius              384       Greek
     Thessalian Cavalry    Philippus           2,020       Thessal
     Mercenary Cavalry     Andromachus           400       Merc 2
     Greek Cavalry         Coeranus              320       Greek
     Odrysian Cavalry      Agathon               342       Odrysia
               
The Companions  - Philotas commanding
     
     troops                commander           # men       flagname
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     The Royal Squadron    Cleitus               300       Cleitus
                           Glaucius              253       Glaucis
                           Ariston               253       Ariston
                           Sopolis               253       Sopolis
                           Heracleides           253       Hrcldes
                           Demetrias             253       Demetrs
                           Meleager              253       Mleager
                           Hegelochus            253       Heglchs
     
     
Other Units
     
     troops                commander           # men       flagname
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     Mercenary Infantry    Cleander            6,700       Merc 1
                                                           Merc 2
                                                           Merc 3
     Macedonian Archers    Brison                500       Macedon
     Half Agrianians       Attalus               500       Agrian
     Thracian Javelineers  Balacrus            1,000       Thracia
     Cretan Archers                              500       Cretan
     Hypaspists            Nicanor             3,000       Hypas 1
                                                           Hypas 2
     Thracian Infantry     Sitalis             5,500       Thrac 1
                                                           Thrac 2



                               THE PERSIANS
                     Darius III Colomannus commanding

The Cavalry

     troops                                    # men       flagname
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     Special Bactrian Cavalry                  1,000       Spe Bac
     Special Scythian Cavalry                  2,000       Spe Scv
     Bactrian Cavalry                          8,000       Bactr 1
                                                           Bactr 2
                                                           Bactr 3
                                                           Bactr 4
     Daan Cavalry                              1,000       Daan
     Arachotian Cavalry                        1,000       Arachot
     Susian Cavalry                            1,000       Susian
     Cadusian Cavalry                          1,000       Cadusia
     Indian Cavalry                            1,000       Indian
     Sacesinian Cavalry                        1,000       Sacesin
     Albanian Cavalry                          1,000       Albania
     Hyrcanian Cavalry                         1,000       Hyrcani
     Tapurian Cavalry                          1,000       Tapuria
     Sacan Cavalry                             1,000       Sacan
     Median Cavalry                            1,000       Median
     Mesopotamian Cavalry                      1,000       Mesopot
     Assyrian Cavalry                          1,000       Assyria
     Armenian Cavalry                          1,000       Armenia
     Cappadocian Cavalry                       1,000       Cappadc
     Persian Cavalry                           5,000       Persia 1
                                                           Persia 2


The Infantry
     
     troops                                    # men       flagname
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     Greek Mercenary                           2,000       Greek
     Phrygia                                   1,000       Phrygri
     Cilicia                                   1,000       Cylicia
     Colchian                                  1,000       Colchia
     Babylonian                                1,000       Babylon
     Cossaean                                  1,000       Cossae
     Uxian                                     1,000       Uxian
     Carmanian                                 1,000       Carman
     Chorasmian                                1,000       Chroash
     Arian                                     1,000       Arian
     Gedrosian                                 1,000       Gedrosh
     Oxydracae                                 1,000       Oxydrac
     Sogdiana                                  1,000       Sogdian
     Paraetacene                               1,000       Paraeta
     Assaceni                                  1,000       Assacen
     Aspasi                                    1,000       Aspasi
     Paropamisadae                             1,000       Paropah
     Gandhara                                  1,000       Cathaei
     Drangiana                                 1,000       Drangia
     Ariaspae                                  1,000       Ariaspa
     Oreitae                                   1,000       Oreitae
     Arabian                                   1,000       Arabian
     Eqyptian                                  1,000       Egypt
     Lycaonia                                  1,000       Lycaon
     Pamphylian                                1,000       Pamphyl
     Bithynian                                 1,000       Bithyni
     Lydian                                    1,000       Lydian
     Lycian                                    1,000       Lycian
     Arbelitis                                 1,000       Arbelit
     Ethiopian                                 1,000       Ethopia
     
The Special Units
     
     troops                                    # men       flagname
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------          
     Scythe Wheeled Chariots                     200       1st
                                                           2nd
                                                           3rd
     War Elephants                                15       Royal
     Royal Foot Guard                          1,000       Royal
     Royal Horse Guard                         1,000       Royal
     


This  Order  of  Battle  was prepared from  research,  and  with  the  kind 
assistance, of Charles Pierce.  It is reprinted with his permission.


HASTINGS
14 October 1066
Harold - William

Harold  Godwinson,  elected  King  of England as successor  to  Edward  the 
Confessor on January 5, 1066 was between a rock and a hard place.  The rock 
was the Norse king,  Harald Hardrada, considered the finest military leader 
of  the 11th century and pretender to the English throne.   The hard  place 
was William,  Duke of Normandy, another contender for the monarchy.  Within 
10  months both of Harold's opponents would invade  his  kingdom;  Hardrada 
from  the  north,  William from the south,  each at the head  of  a  large, 
professional army and Harold's first mis-step would be his last.

The first to attack,  in September, were the Norwegians, joined by Harold's 
traitorous  brother,   Tostig,   who  had  been  promised  the  Earldom  of 
Northumbria  after  Haradrada's conquest  of  England.   Harold,  with  his 
Housecarls (3,000 professional soldiers armed with double-handed axe,  long 
shields,  helm  and knee-length chain mail) rushed north to  intercept  the 
Norsemen.   As  Harold raced up Ermine Street (the ancient road  stretching 
from London past Lincoln and York to the far north) he collected his  shire 
levies (known as The Fyrd).   These levies were comprised of free men  that 
owed  a feudal due of two months military service per year.   Though  often 
well ed by their local thanes the Fyrd was armed with an odd assortment  of 
spears, axes, stone slings, javelins and scythes.

On  September  20,  before  Harold and his army were able  to  arrive  with 
reinforcements,  the  Norsemen  soundly defeated the Earls  of  Mercia  and 
Northumbria at Fulford,  just south of York.   In a lightning march  Harold 
reached  the  now  victorious  Hardrada and  immediately  attacked  him  on 
September  25  at  Stamford Bridge which  crossed  the  river  Derwent.   A 
vicious,  desperate  battle  ensued  stretching from  dawn  to  dusk,  that 
ultimately  ended  with  the deaths of Hardrada and the  would-be  Earl  of 
Northumbria, Tostig, and the complete route of the Norsemen.

Three  days later,  William Duke of Normandy,  landed at Pevensey,  in  the 
south  of  England  at  the head of 1,000 boatloads  of  troops  and  began 
devastating  the  countryside.   On  October  2,  word  reached  Harold  of 
William's  invasion and with his surviving Housecarls he turned  about  and 
rode hard back down Ermine Street, calling for fresh levies along the way.

The  Fyrd  was ordered to rendezvous at a prominent hoar apple  tree  which 
stood just south of the ancient forest of Andredswealk,  60 miles southeast 
of London.  Harold arrived on the evening of October 13/14 with most of his 
troops  stretched out along the road behind him.   William and the  Normans 
spent the night resting in camp at Hastings.  

The narration of Robert Wace,  a Norman poet, continues the next morning as 
William addressed his troops,  " 'For God's sake spare not;  strike hard at 
the beginning;  stay not to take spoil;  all the booty shall be in  common, 
and there will be plenty for everyone.   There will be no safety in  asking 
quarter  or  in  flight;  the English will never love or  spare  a  Norman.  
Felons they were,  and felons they are; false they were and false they will 
be.   Show  not weakness towards them,  for they will have no pity on  you.  
Neither  the coward for running well,  nor the bold man for  smiting  well, 
will be the better liked by the English, nor will any be the more spared on 
either account.  You may fly to the sea, but you can fly not further.'
"...Then all went to their tents,  and armed themselves as they best might; 
and  the  duke  was very busy,  giving every one his  orders;  and  he  was 
courteous to all the vassals,  giving away many arms and horses to  them... 
Then  he crossed himself,  and straightway took his  hauberk,  stooped  his 
head,  and put it on aright,  and laced his helmet,  and girt on his sword, 
which  a varlet brought him.   Then the duke called for his good horse -  a 
better could not be found.  It had been sent him by a King of Spain, out of 
very great friendship.   Neither arms nor the press of fighting men did  it 
fear, if its lord spurred it on.

"...The barons,  and knights, and men-at-arms were all now armed; the foot-
soldiers  were well-equipped,  each bearing bow and sword;  on their  heads 
were caps, and to their feet were bound buskins.  Some had good hides which 
they  had  bound round their bodies;  and many wee clad in frocks  and  had 
quivers  and  bows hung to their girdles.   The knights  had  hauberks  and 
swords,  boots of steel and shining helmets; shields at their necks, and in 
their hands lances.  And all had their cognizances, so that each might know 
his  fellow,  and Norman might not strike Norman,  nor Frenchman  kill  his 
countryman  by mistake.   Those on foot led the way,  with  serried  ranks, 
bearing  their bows.   The knights rode next,  supporting the archers  from 
behind.

"Harold  had  summoned his men,  earls,  barons  and  vavasours,  from  the 
castles and the cities,  from the ports,  the villages,  and boroughs.  The 
peasants were also called together from the villages,  bearing such arms as 
they found; clubs and great picks, iron forks and stakes... The English had 
built  up a fence before them with their shields,  and with ash  and  other 
wood, and had well joined and wattled in the whole work, so as not to leave 
even a crevice.

"Meanwhile the Normans appeared advancing over the ridge of a rising ground 
(Telham hill);  and the first division of their troops moved onwards  along 
the  hill  and across a valley.   And  presently  another  division,  still 
larger,  came in sight,  close following upon the first,  and they were led 
towards another part of the field,  forming together as the first body  had 
done.

"And while Harold saw and examined them, and was pointing them out to Gurth 
(his brother),  a fresh company came in sight,  covering all the plain, and 
in the midst of them was raised the standard that came from Rome (William's 
standard was sent by the Pope).  Near it was the duke, and the best men and 
greatest strength of the army were there.

"...The  Normans  brought  on three divisions of their army  to  attack  at 
different places.   They set out in three companies, and in three companies 
did they fight.

"As soon as the two armies were in full view of each other, great noise and 
tumult arose.  You might hear the sound of many trumpets, of bugles, and of 
horns; and then you might see men ranging themselves in line, lifting their 
shields,  raising their lances,  bending their bows, handling their arrows, 
ready for assault and defense.

"...Then  Taillefer,  who sang right well,  rode mounted on a swift  horse, 
before the duke,  singing of Charlemagne and of Roland and of  Oliver,  and 
the  peers  who  died in Roncescalles.   And when they drew  night  to  the 
English,  'A boon,  sire! cried Taillefer; 'I have long served you, and you 
owe me for all such service.   Today, so please, you shall repay it.  I ask 
as my guerdon and beseech you for it earnestly,  that you will allow me  to 
strike the first blow in the battle!'  And the duke answered, 'I grant it.'  
Then Taillefer put his horse to a gallop, charging before all the rest, and 
struck  an  Englishman dead,  driving his lance below the breast  into  his 
body,  and  stretching him upon the ground.   Then he drew his  sword,  and 
struck another,  crying out,  'Come on!  What do ye, sirs? lay on, lay on!'  
At the second blow he struck,  the English pushed forward,  and  surrounded 
and slew him.  Forthwith arose the noise and cry of war, and on either side 
the people put themselves in motion.

"The Normans moved on to the assault,  and the English defended  themselves 
well.   Some were striking,  others urging onwards; all were bold, and cast 
aside fear.  And now, behold, that battle was gathered, whereof the fame is 
yet mighty.

"Loud  and  far  resounded the bray of the horns;  and the  shocks  of  the 
lances, the mighty strokes of maces, and the quick clashing of swords.  One 
while the Englishmen rushed on, another while they fell back; one while the 
men from over seas charged onwards, and again at other times retreated.

"...When the English fall,  the Normans shout.  Each side taunts and defies 
the other,  yet neither knoweth what the other saith;  and the Normans  say 
the English bark, because they understand not their speech.

"...The  Normans press on the assault,  and the English defend  their  post 
well;  they pierce the hauberks, and cleave the shields, receive and return 
mighty  blows.   Again,  some press forwards;  others yield,  and  thus  in 
various ways the struggle proceeds.   In the plain was a fosse,  which  the 
Normans  had  now  behind  them,  having passed it  in  the  fight  without 
regarding  it.   But the English charged and drove the Normans before  them 
till they made them fall back upon their fosse, overthrowing into it horses 
and men.   Many were to be seen falling therin, rolling one over the other, 
with their faces to the earth,  and unable to rise.   Many of the  English, 
also,  whom the Normans drew down along with them,  died there.  At no time 
during the day's battle did so many Normans die as perished in that  fosse.  
So those said who saw the dead.

"...Then  Duke  William's brother,  Odo,  the good priest,  the  bishop  of 
Bayeux, galloped up and said to them, 'Stand fast! stand fast! be quiet and 
move not!  fear nother,  for if God please we shall conquer yet.'  So  they 
took courage,  and rested where they were;  and Odo returned galloping back 
to where the battle was most fierce,  and was of great service on that day.  
He  had put a hauberk on,  over a white aube;  wide in the body,  with  the 
sleeve tight,  and sat on a white horse,  so that all might recognize  him.  
In  his hand he held a mace,  and wherever he saw most need he held up  and 
stationed  the knights,  and often urged them on to assault and strike  the 
enemy.

"From nine o'clock in the morning, when the combat began till three o'clock 
came,  the battle was up and down,  this way and that,  and no one knew who 
would  conquer and win the land.   Both sides stood so firm and  fought  so 
well, that no one could guess which would prevail.  The Norman archers with 
their bows shot thickly upon the English;  but they covered themselves with 
their shields,  so that the arrows could no reach their bodies,  nor do any 
mischief,  how true so ever was their aim, or however well they shot.  Then 
the Normans determined to shoot their arrows upwards into the air,  so that 
they  might  fall on their enemy's heads,  and  strike  their  faces.   The 
archers adopted this scheme, and shot up int o the air towards the English; 
and  the arrows in falling struck their heads and faces,  and put  out  the 
eyes  of  many;  and all feared to open their eyes,  or leave  their  faces 
unguarded.

"The  arrows  now flew thicker than rain before the  wind;  fast  sped  the 
shafts the English called 'wibetes".   Then it was that an arrow,  that had 
thus been shot upwards,  struck Harold above his right eye, and put it out.  
In  his  agony he drew the arrow and threw it away,  breaking it  with  his 
hands;  and  the  pain to his head was so great,  that he leaned  upon  his 
shield.

"...The Normans saw that the English defended themselves well, and were  so 
strong in their position that they could do little against them.   So  they 
consulted together privily,  and arranged to draw off, and pretend to flee, 
till the English should pursue and scatter themselves over the  field;  for 
they saw that if they could once get their enemy to break their ranks, they 
might be attacked and discomfited much more easily.   As they had said,  so 
they  did.   The Normans by little and little fled,  the English  following 
them.   As  the  one  fell back,  the other pressed  after;  and  when  the 
Frenchmen  retreated,  the English thought and cried out,  that the men  of 
France fled, and would never return.

"...The Normans were playing their part well,  when an English knight  came 
rushing  up,  having in his company a hundred men,  furnished with  various 
arms.   He wielded a northern hatchet, and with the blade a full foot long; 
and  was  well armed after his manner,  being  tall,  bold,  and  of  noble 
carriage.  In the front of the battle where the Normans thronged  most,  he 
came bounding on swifter than the stag, many Normans falling before him and 
his company.   He rushed straight upon a Norman who was armed and riding on 
a war-horse,  and tried with his hatchet of steel to cleave his helmet; but 
the  blow miscarried,  and the sharp blade glanced down before the  saddle-
bow,  driving  through the horse's neck down to the ground,  so  that  both 
horse and master fell together to the earth.

"I know not whether the Englishman struck another blow; but the Normans who 
saw  the stroke were astonished,  and about to abandon  the  assault,  when 
Roger de Montgomeri came galloping up,  with his lance set,  and heeding no 
the long-handled axe,  which the Englishmen wielded aloft, struck him down, 
and left him stretched upon the ground.   Then Roger cried out, 'Frenchmen, 
strike!  the day is ours!'  And again a fierce melee was to be  seen,  with 
many  a blow of lance and sword;  the English still  defending  themselves, 
killing the horses and cleaving the shields.

"...And  now  might  be heard the loud clang and cry  of  battle,  and  the 
clashing  of  lances.   The English stood firm  in  their  barricades,  and 
shivered  the lances, beating them into pieces with their bills and  maces.  
The  Normans  drew their swords,  and hewed down the  barricades,  and  the 
English  in  great  trouble  fell back  upon  their  standard,  where  were 
collected the maimed and wounded.

"...Duke  William pressed close upon the English with his  lance;  striving 
hard  to  reach  the standard with the great  troop  he  led;  and  seeking 
earnestly  for Harold,  on whose account the whole war  was.   The  Normans 
followed their lord,  and pressed around him; they ply their blows upon the 
English;  and  those defend themselves stoutly,  striving hard  with  their 
enemies, returning blow for blow.

"...Loud  was now the clamour,  and great the slaughter;  many a soul  then 
quitted the body it inhabited.   The living marched over the heaps of dead, 
and each side was wearing of striking.  He charged on who could, and he who 
could no longer strike still pushed forward.  The strong struggled with the 
strong;  some failed,  others triumphed;  the cowards fell back,  the brave 
pressed on;  and sad was his fate who fell in the midst,  for he had little 
chance  of rising again;  and many in truth fell,  who never rose  at  all, 
being crushed under the throng.

"And now the Normans pressed on so far,  that at last they had reached  the 
standard.   There Harold had remained, defending himself to the utmost; but 
he was sorely wounded in his eye by the arrow,  and suffered grievous  pain 
form the blow.   An armed man came in the throng of battle,  and struck him 
on  the  ventaille on his helmet,  and beat him to the ground;  and  as  he 
sought to recover himself,  a knight beat him down again,  striking him  on 
the thick of his thigh down to the bone.

"...The standard was beaten down, the golden standard was taken, and Harold 
and  the best of his friends were slain;  but there was so much  eagerness, 
and throng of so many around,  seeking to kill him,  that I know not who it 
was that slew him.

"The  English were in great trouble at having lost their king,  and at  the 
duke having conquered and beat down the standard;  but they still fought on 
and  defended themselves long,  and in fact till the day drew to  a  close.  
Then  it clearly appeared to all that the standard was lost,  and the  news 
had  spread throughout the army that Harold for certain was dead;  and  all 
saw that there was no longer any hope,  so they left the field,  and  those 
fled who could.

"William fought well;  and many an assault did he lead,  many a blow did he 
give, and many receive, and many fell dead under has hand.  Two horses were 
killed under him,  and he took a third at time of need, so that he fell not 
to the ground;  and he lost not a drop of blood.  But whatever any one did, 
and whoever lived or died, this is certain, that William conquered..."

So  ends  the narration of Robert Wace and with it  Anglo-Saxon  rule  over 
England.

                              ORDER OF BATTLE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                The English
                          King Harold commanding

The House-carls   (flagnames)
    Carls 1, Carls 2, Carls 3, Carls 4, Carls 5, Carls 6

The Fyrd   (flagnames)
    Fyrd 1, Fyrd 2, Fyrd 3, Fyrd 4, Fyrd 5, Fyrd 6, Fyrd 7, Fyrd 8


                                The Normans
                          Duke William commanding

(flagnames)
    Norman1, Norman2, Norman3, Norman1, Norman2, Norman3, Norman1, Norman2

The Bretons   (flagnames)
    Breton1, Breton2, Breton1, Breton2, Breton3, Breton1, Breton2

The Allies   (flagnames)
    Allies1, Allies2, Allies1, Allies2, Allies3, Allies1, Allies2

MARSTON MOOR
2 July 1644
Parliament - Charles I

After  two years of chess-like opening maneuvers the English Civil War  had 
come  to that inevitable mid-game point where the first great clash was  to 
take place.   The Royalist army, under the command of Prince Rupert, son of 
the   Elector  Palatine,   needed  a  major  decisive  victory   over   the 
Parliamentarian   forces  if  Charles  I  was  to  maintain  any  hope   of 
every regaining control over England.  The Royalist forces,  the weaker  of 
the  two  opponents,  were further hampered by a lack of  supplies  that  a 
blockading English navy loyal to Parliament kept from crossing the Channel.

June, 1644 found five armies in the fields of York; two Royalist (one under 
Newcastle besieged at York, the other under Rupert marching to his aid) and 
three  Parliamentarian (those under Manchester,  Fairfax and Leven  leading 
the Scottish allies).   Upon Rupert's approach the parliamentarian  forces, 
wary of being trapped between the besieged and the rescuers, drew off.  Six 
days  of maneuvering led the five armies to the wet rye fields  of  Marston 
Moor  seven  miles west of York city.   Since the War of the Roses  no  two 
larger armies had faced each other on English soil.

Rupert's forces were arrayed on the mile and a half long moor facing  south 
across  a  drainage ditch stretching between the villages of  Tockwith  and 
Long  Marston where the combined Parliamentary-Scottish armies  stood  with 
their backs to the 150 foot hill.   Both armies filled the center of  their 
lines with masses of pikemen while cavalry guarded the flanks.

The Royalist right wing was composed to two lines of three regiments  each; 
the first under Lord Byron,  the second under Lord Molineux,  Sir John Urry 
(also Hurry), second-in-command under Byron, placed companies of musketeers 
between  the cavalry squadrons.   Rupert's personal cavalry  regiment,  the 
finest in the army,  was stationed echeloned in the right rear.  The center 
was composed of three masses of infantry;  Rupert's Bluecoats,  Newcastle's 
Whitecoats  and  Byron's foot.   Posted directly behind the  center  was  a 
tactical  reserve of approximately 1,000 of Rupert's Life-guards.   On  the 
Royalist left Sir Charles Lucas commanded the front  three  regiments;  Sir 
Richard Dacres the back three; all under the direction of Lord Goring.

Across  the  ditch the Parliament-Scottish army  was  similarly  stationed.  
Their left,  commanded by Cromwell, consisted of three lines; the first two 
comprised  of  cavalry  from the eastern association,  the  last  of  David 
Leslie's  Scottish  regiments.   The left center was held  by  manchester's 
three brigades of foot under Lawrence Crawford; the center consisted of two 
brigades  of  Yorkshire  foot and three Scottish  brigades  all  under  the 
command  of  Lord  Fairfax.   The  main body  of  Scottish  infantry  under 
Lieutenant-General  William  Baillie was stationed to the right  of  center 
while  the right flank was held by 2,000 cavalry troopers under Sir  Thomas 
Fairfax with three regiments of Scottish horse in reserve.

The  better  part  of  the day had been spent uinder  a  sky  of  desultory 
thunderclouds.   By  seven  o'clock Rupert had become  convinced  that  any 
chance  of battle had passed for the day and gave the order for his men  to 
stand  down  and prepare the evening meals.   It was now  the  moment  that 
Cromwell and Leven - well aware of the long midsummer days and pending full 
moon - had been waiting for.

The battle opened with Cromwell's horsemen,  the Ironsides,  charging  down 
the slopes by Tockwith towards Rupert's right flank.   Rupert responded  by 
removing  his own cavalry regiment from their reserve position and  ordered 
them  to  attack  the Parliamentary horse.   While  Colonel  Fritzel's  (or 
Fraser) dragoons engaged the Royal horse, the Ironsides plunged on into the 
mass  of  Byron's  cavalry and in the  words  of  Cromwell's  scout-master, 
"scattered them like dust".

However,  as Byron's horse broke and fled,  they revealed Molyneux and  the 
Royalist second line counter-attacking.   Cromwell's attack splintered  and 
dissipated  like surf on the breakers before them.   While  the  Ironside's 
second line was still crossing the ditch, the first line was turning around 
and  beginning  a retreat.   A pistol ball grazed Cromwell's neck  and  the 
muzzle flash blinded his eyes.   Route seemed imminent when David  Leslie's 
800 Scottish horse appeared to attack the Royalist right flank.

The fleeing first line of the Ironsides steadied and then was wheeled about 
by the still dazed Cromwell.   The momentum changed again and the  Royalist 
horse dashed in panic for Wilstrop Woods,  hotly pursued by Leslie's Scots.  
Panic enveloped the Royalist right as all fled to the road to York.  Rupert 
barely escaped with his own life; a fate not shared by his poodle, Boy.

However,  the further east that one traveled from Cromwell's great  victory 
on the left the greater Parliament's troubles became.   The nearest mass of 
infantry,  Crawford's  pikemen  in the left-center,  were  driving  Byron's 
regiment of foot before them.   But, in Parliament's center, Lord Fairfax's 
foot had been stopped cold by the Royalist's Whitecoats and put to a  route 
that also rolled up his reserve of two brigades of Scots.

Next in the Parliament line came Baillie's Scots,  whose left flank was now 
completely  exposed due to Fairfax's defeat.   The left-most  regiments  of 
Buccleuch  and Loudon were caught up in the route of the center  while  the 
right-most  regiments  of  Lindsay and Maitland stood  firm  against  three 
charges  of  Lord  Goring's  Royalist horse  and  took  Sir  Charles  Lucas 
Prisoner.

On  the  extreme right all was chaos.   An  irresistible  Royalist  cavalry 
charge  swept Sir Thomas Fairfax's cavalry before them;  only the  Scottish 
regiments  of Dahousie and Eglinton making a stand.   Fairfax,  sporting  a 
sword wound on his cheek,  removed the white Parliament badge from his  hat 
and  snuck through the Royalist lines to rejoin Manchester in  the  center.  
Meanwhile,  the Parliamentary generals,  Lord Fairfax and Leven,  fled  the 
battlefield  while  elements  of Goring's horse  looted  the  Parliamentary 
baggage camp.

By  8:30,  Cromwell on the left had advanced as far north as Goring had  to 
the south.  The two armies were engaged in a macabre "pas de deux" with the 
pivot point five beleaguered Scottish regiments in the center.  The battle, 
and ultimately the fate of Charles I, hung on that point.

Cromwell,  in practical command of the most cohesive fighting force left in 
the  Parliamentary army,  ordered a wheel in line eastward  and  southward.  
Now,  curiously,  the  positions  of the two armies were almost  the  exact 
opposite  of  where they had been but one and a half  hours  earlier;  with 
Cromwell  charging  south against the Royalist Whitecoats  who  had  turned 
about to face north.

While  the Scots pushed north against the Royalist center and Baillie  hung 
on  for  dear life against Goring,  the Ironsides attacked  the  previously 
victorious Royal horse en flank.   The Whitecoats were pushed,  herded  and 
forced  back  yard  by yard,  surrounded on  all  sides;  and  refusing  to 
surrender were slaughtered almost to a man.   It was 10 o'clock before  the 
Parliamentarian victory was complete.

The Royalist army of Newcastle had ceased to exist.   Within two weeks York 
surrendered  to  the victors of Marston Moor and the north of  England  was 
lost forever to Charles I.


                              ORDER OF BATTLE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             The Royalist Army
                         Prince Rupert commanding

The Right Wing  - Lord Byron commanding
     
     troops                commander           # men       flagname
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     Under Lord Molyneux   
                           Leveson               250       Leveson
                           Lord Molineux         300       Milineu
                           Tyldesly              250       Tyldesl
     Under Lord Byron
                           Sir John Urry         250       Urry
                           Lord Byron            450       Byron
                           Vaughan               400       Vaughan
     Independent
                           Rupert's Horse        500       Rupert
                           Musketeers            500       Musket1
                           Trevor                400       Trevor
                           Tuke                  200       Tuke
     
The Center  - Lord James Eythin commanding
     
     troops                commander           # men       flagname
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------     
     Lord Byron's Foot                         3,125
                           Byron                           Byron
                           Warren                          Warren
                           Tyldesly                        Tyldesl
     Rupert's Bluecoats                        3,125
                           Broughton                       Brghton    
                           Cheater                         Cheater
                           Erneley & Gibson                Erneley
                           Tillier                         Tillier
                           Chisenal                        Chisenl
     Newcastle's 
        Whitecoats         Mackworth           3,000       White 1
                                                           White 2
                                                           White 3
                           Rupert's Life-guards  140       Lifegrd
                           Widdington            400       Widding
                           Blakeston             400       Blakest
                           Derbyshire Foot       220       Derby
     
     
The Left  - Lord George Goring commanding
     
     troops                commander           # men       flagname
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     Under Lord Goring
                           Frescheville          160       Fresch
                           Eyre                  225       Eyre
                           Langdale              700       Langdle
                           Musketeers            500       Musket2
     Under Sir Richard Dacres
                           Sir Charles Lucas     400       Lucas
                           Sir Richard Dacres    400       Dacres

     
                       The Parliamentarian-Scottish Army
                           Under the joint command of
                         Manchester; Fairfax and leven


The Left  - Under the command of Oliver Cromwell
     
     troops                commander           # men       flagname
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     Ironsides             Oliver Cromwell     1,250       Iron 1
                                                           Iron 2
     Manchester's Horse                        1,100       Manches
     Fraser's Dragoons                           500       Fraser
     Under David Leslie
                           Leslie                975       Leslie
                           Kirkoudbright         500       Kirkoud
                           Balcarres             475       Balcarr
     
The Center  - Under the command of Lord Fairfax
     
     troops                commander           # men       flagname
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     Under Major-General Crawford
                           Manchester's Foot   3,000       Manch 1
                                                           Manch 2
                                                           Manch 3
                           Yester                700       Yester
                           Livingstone           650       Livings
                           Coupar                650       Coupar
                           Dunfermline           650       Dunferm
                           Lord Fairfax' Foot  3,000       Frfax 1
                                                           Frfax 2
                                                           Frfax 3
     Scottish Infantry
        under Lt. Gen. Baillie
                           Rae                   750       Rae
                           Hamilton              750       Hamiltn
                           Maitland              750       Maitlnd
                           Crawford-Lindsay      750       Crawfrd
        Under Lumsden
                           Kilhead               750       Kilhead
                           Cassillis             750       Cassill
                           Buccleuch             750       Buccleu
                           Loudon                750       Loudon
        In Reserve         
                           Erskine               750       Erskine
                           Dudhope               750       Dudhope
     
The Right  - under the command of Sir Thomas Fairfax
     
     troops                commander           # men       flagname
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     Sir Thomas Fairfax                        2,000       Frfax 1
                                                           Frfax 2
     Lambert                                   1,250       Lambert
     Lord Dalhousie's Horse                      750       Dalhous
     Lord Eglinton's Horse                       750       Eglinth
     Balgonie                                    750       Balgoni
     

WATERLOO
18 June 1815
Wellington - Napoleon

As  Napoleon,  returning from exile on Elba,  stepped off the gangplank  at 
Cannes  on March 1,  1815 a clock started ticking that would end  110  days 
later  on  the  hills  12 miles south of  Brussels  near  a  hamlet  called 
Waterloo.   There  were  90 days left on that timepiece  when  the  Emperor 
triumphantly  returned to Paris at the head of a mob of cheering  civilians 
and old veterans from his many campaigns.   The days had dwindled to 16  by 
the  time Napoleon had reorganized and re-equipped his armies and gave them 
what would be their last marching orders.

After detaching 78,660 troops to cover the frontiers and suppress  Royalist 
revolt,  the 115,500 man Armee du Nord remained as Napoleon's striking  arm 
against  the 800,000 soldiers of the  English,  Dutch,  Austrian,  Belgian, 
Prussian and Russian allies.   Obviously,  the Emperor's only chance was to 
strike  first and defeat the individual armies in detail before they  could 
unite  by  mid-July  for the impending invasion of  France.   On  June  14, 
Napoleon was poised to march northeast and drive a wedge between the Anglo-
Dutch army under the Duke of Wellington concentrating at Quatre  Bras,  and 
marshal Blucher's Prussians scattered to the southeast.

The  next  day  Napoleon  forced a crossing of the  Sambre  after  a  stiff 
resistance from the Prussian I Corps and split the Armee du Nord into three 
groups.   The  left wind under Ney was ordered to advance to the North  and 
push any Anglo-Allied units encountered down the Quatre Bras-Brussels  road 
while  Napoleon  and  Grouchy  would  crush  the  Prussians  at  Ligny  and 
Sombreffe.   The battle against Blucher was joined at 2:30 on the afternoon 
of  June  16.   Three  and  one-half hours later  the  Prussiahn  army  was 
retreating  leaving  17,000 casualties on the field  while  another  10,000 
Prussians  and Saxons deserted.   Napoleon returned to his headquarters  at 
Fleurus  that  night  convinced that the Prussian  army  had  been  utterly 
destroyed.   This  was  the Emperor's last  and  perhaps,  greatest  error, 
because Blucher and the Prussians would return 48 hours later; just in time 
to hear that clock started earlier on the docks at Cannes strike its  final 
chime.

Marshal Grouchy, with 33,000 men of the III Corps, IV Corps and part of the 
Cavalry Reserve,  was assigned the task of hurrying the defeated  Prussians 
down  the  road  to  Wavre and away  from  any  juncture  with  Wellington.  
Napoleon,  with  the  72,000 men of the Armee  du  Nord  remaining,  turned 
northwest to Quatre Bras and then north towards Waterloo.

After  a series of superb maneuvers,  Wellington had extricated the  Anglo-
Allied  army from Quatre Bras and stationed them some nine miles  north  on 
the last ridge line before Brussels with his back to  a great  forest,  the 
Bois de Soignes.   Years later,  from St.  Helena, Napoleon would criticize 
the British commander for placing his troops in a position that offered  no 
retreat.  Then again, the duke would have have no need to retreat.

A  hard  rain fell that night drenching the quarter of a  million  soldiers 
scattered about the plains and hills of south Belgium.  In the east Grouchy 
had already lost contact with the Prussians he was pursuing.   Before  dawn 
Wellington  would  receive a note from Blucher promising the arrival  of  a 
Prussian corps that day.

At 1:00 a.m.  the Emperor Napoleon left his bivouac and walked the line  of 
the  Imperial Guard stopping to share a soldier's simple meal and to  stare 
at the fires of his enemies that dotted the northern skyline.   At 2:30  he 
sent  a  group  of  staff officers to examine  distant  sounds  that  might 
indicate  troop movements.   They returned an hour later and reported  that 
Wellington  was still in place.   Napoleon went to seep at dawn only to  be 
awakened an hour later with news that the skies were clearing.

That morning,  after breakfast with his staff and senior officers, Napoleon 
declared,  "The  enemy  army is numerically superior to ours  by  almost  a 
quarter;  yet, we have no less than 90 percent of the chances in our favor, 
and  not 10 against us."  His orders for a scheduled assault at  9:00  a.m. 
were twice delayed as troops slogged through the mud and artillery officers 
requested more time to push and shove their field pieces into position.  At 
11:00 a.m.  Napoleon postponed the infantry attack to 1:30 p.m. and ordered 
it to be preceded by a massive artillery barrage.

The  Emperor's  optimism  notwithstanding,  the Armee du Nord  had  a  very 
difficult  task  ahead.    The  enemy  that  confronted  them  was   firmly 
established on a ridge line overlooking the Mont St.  Jean plateau.  On the 
Anglo-Allied  right was a marshy area now turned quagmire by  last  night's 
rains.   Their  left  extended past the French right and  terminated  on  a 
commanding  elevation  behind which were  stationed  ample  reinforcements.  
Though Napoleon possessed a mighty striking force it was confined within  a 
box 6,000 yards in width and 4,500 yards in depth.   With the enemy a short 
1,000 yards away precious little room was left for maneuver of finesse.

Napoleon's tactics were as simple as his options were few.   Flank  attacks 
on  the extreme left or the extreme right were not  advisable;  the  former 
because  any success on the French left would simply push the  Anglo-Allied 
army  closer to the approaching Prussians while the later plan  called  for 
the French to descend from the Mt.  St.  Jean plateau, expose the Waterloo-
Quatre Bras road,  descend into a valley and storm a  ridge.   Furthermore, 
any advance on Wellington's right would have met with a sharp counterattack 
from units he stationed as far west as Hal for that express purpose.

Instead  Napoleon opted for one massive blow to be delivered  by  d'Erlon's 
First Corps preceded by Prince Jerome's feint at Hougomont on the left  and 
a torrential artillery barrage from the massed cannons of the First, Second 
and Sixth Corps.

The  French batteries opened up at 11:30 a.m.  and received only  scattered 
counter-battery fire in return.  With Pire's lancers in support, the men of 
the  II  Corps rushed the country estate known as the  Chateau  de  Goumont 
(Hougomont).  The  thick walls of the courtyard and buildings provided  the 
Nassauer, Hanoverian, 1st, 2nd (Coldstream) and 3rd Guards defenders with a 
ready-made  fortress.   Napoleon's  feint which had been intended  to  draw 
troops  from the Anglo-Allied center to reinforce their  beleaguered  right 
had only the opposite effect.  Indeed, the 2,000 defenders had successfully 
repelled  numerous attacks by the French II Corps that outnumbered them  by 
over  ten to one.   Certainly a large part of the blame for failure on  the 
left belonged to the Emperor's brother,  Jerome,  who three his men at  the 
resolutely defended chateau one brigade at a time.   At 1:00  p.m.  Marshal 
Ney,  who  had been assigned the command of the main attack,  sent word  to 
Napoleon that the I Corps was now in position.

Before  the  Emperor  gave the command to start  the  pre-assault  barrage, 
however,  a  captured  non-commissioned officer from the  2nd  Regiment  of 
Silesia was brought to him.   The hussar was caught bearing a communication 
from Blucher to Wellington announcing the arrival in the east of the  first 
Prussian corps on the field.  There were now a scant ten hours left on that 
Imperial timepiece.

Undaunted,  Napoleon swung two light cavalry divisions eastward to  observe 
any  signs of an approaching enemy and moved the VI Corps to a position  to 
defend  the  right.   He also dashed off an urgent message to  the  missing 
Grouchy that concluded,  "A letter just intercepted indicates that  General 
Bulow  is going to attack our right flank.   We think that we can see  this 
corps on the heights of St. Lambert.  Do not lose one moment, therefore, in 
coming  closer to us,  in joining us and in crushing Bulow,  whom you  will 
catch  red-handed."  By the time Grouchy could receive this  communique  at 
7:00  p.m.  at  Wavre,  the Armee du Nord would have been  crushed  out  of 
existence on the plateau of Mt. St. Jean.

With  the Emperor's signal the 78 guns opened up at a range of  500  yards.  
Most  of Bylandt's Dutch-Belgian brigade that had the  misfortune to be  on 
the  southern  face  of the  ridge  were  blasted,  maimed,  mutilated  and 
terrorized.   At 1:45 p.m.  with the cry of Vive l"Empereur!  screamed from 
the  throats  of d'Erlon's I Corps the advance began.   On the  left  flank 
Jerome renewed his efforts to force an entry into Hougomont.

The  path of the attack crossed two valleys and an intermediary  ridgeline. 
The last half-mile lay inside the crescent of the Anglo-Allied  artillery's 
overlapping fields of fire.   The initial assault pushed the defenders  out 
of  an advanced position in a sandpit near the ridge crest and though  they 
made an orderly retreat, their exodus caused a panic among Bylandt's troops 
which ceased to exist as a fighting unit for the rest of the engagement.

It  was  at  this  moment,  when it seemed  that  the  Emperor's  breakfast 
prognostications  wee  about to come true,  that General  Picton  gave  the 
command,  "UP!  At  them!" and the Kempt brigade lept as one man  from  the 
ground on the reverse side of the Ohain ridge and poured a volley into  the 
French at 40 yard's range.   Then the English fixed bayonets and raced down 
the slopes into the shocked columns of d'Erlon's corps.   The forward ridge 
slope  was  awash in attacks and counterattacks that sputtered  and  flared 
fitfully until the epic charge of Ponsonby leading the Union and  Household 
Brigades tore into the French and decided the issue.   The Greys,  with the 
cry,  "Scotland  for ever!" leaped from their support positions and  chased 
the  remnants  of French attack back across the valley and up to  the  very 
cannon line on the next ridge.

In  the  melee  that followed the counterattack  by  Martique's  and  Bro's 
cavalry,  Lord  Ponsonby was run through by a lance and the British  attack 
was  turned and sent back across the valley.   Both armies now returned  to 
their  exact positions held two hours earlier and regrouped.   On the  left 
nothing  had  been  or would be accomplished by the  French  at  Hougomont.  
Napoleon's  diversion had no effect save depriving the army of the  service 
of Reille's II Corps for the duration of the battle.  Indeed, had Hougomont 
fallen  to  the French little tactical advantage would have  been  achieved 
because  the main part of the British right line was situated in  depth  on 
the ridgeline to the north.

Napoleon  now  ordered Ney to resume the attack in the center  and  on  the 
right.   Mistaking groups of wounded and prisoners that filed back  through 
the Forest of Soignes as the start of an Anglo-Allied retreat,  Ney  called 
for  a  massive cavalry assault preceded by another  bombardment  from  the 
great French battery.

With  the  heavy cavalry on the right and the light horse on the  left  Ney 
personally  led  the charge back up the slops  of  Mt.  St.  Jean.   There, 
waiting for them on the plateau, were the 5,000 English and German dragoons 
and hussars, Brunswick Black Lancers and Dutch and Belgian carabiners under 
the  command of Lord Uxbridge.   From Napoleon's vantage point at La  Belle 
Alliance  the  attack seemed to be on the verge of a  breakthrough  and  he 
committed  Kellerman  and the last of the cavalry reserve -  save  the  800 
troops of General Blancard.

Stationed  behind  Uxbridge's  cavalry  were  the  famed  British   squares 
interspersed  with field batteries.   The gunners would fire  their  pieces 
until, with the French cavalry charging down on them and less than 50 yards 
away,  they would race inside the protection of the squares.   The  typical 
square  was  composed of 500 men,  four ranks deep;  60  feet  square  that 
bristled  with  bayonets  and fired devastating  volleys  at  close  range.  
Wellington coolly commanded his troops from within the 73rd's square.

While  the  fighting  on the plateau had become a brutal  massacre  of  the 
French  cavalry,  the  van of the Prussian army began to press  the  French 
Imperial Guard on Napoleon's extreme right at Plancenoit.  By 6:30 p.m. the 
French were outnumbered three to one and the scales continued to tip in the 
favor of the Prussians as new corps arrived.   At this point the battle was 
already lost for napoleon for even if the Armee du Nord could blast a  hole 
in   Wellington's  line  it  lacked  sufficient  strength  to   exploit   a 
breakthrough.   Furthermore the Prussian army was now threatening to  sever 
Napoleon's line of retreat south back to Quatre Bras.

In an exceptionally pointless last effort Napoleon ordered the remaining 11 
Guard battalions to follow him north for another, and final, assault on the 
plateau of Mt.  St.  Jean.   South of La Haye Sainte the Emperor turned his 
Guard  over to ney who had already had four horses shot from under  him  in 
the last three hours.  Again a French attacking force struck off across the 
valley to mount the ridge.   As they neared the top,  Maitland's 1st Guards 
Brigade  which  had been lying in wait on the reverse slope of  the  ridge, 
rose with Wellington's command,  "Stand up Guards!  Make ready!  Fire!" and 
just  that  quickly 300 French Guardsmen fell.   A survivor  of  Maitland's 
brigade said,  "We formed a line four deep,  the first rank  kneeling,  the 
second  also firing,  the third and fourth loading and handling on  to  the 
front,  and  kept  us  such a continuous fire into the mass  of  heaped  up 
Grenadiers...and this was the bouquet to all slaughter!"

Anglo-Allied  artillery  cut great swaths in the  attacking  columns  while 
fresh troops counterattacked their flanks.   All was over and to the  never 
before head cry of, "La Garde recule!" the survivors streamed back down the 
plateau for the last time.

Now  Wellington and Blucher called for a general attack all along the  line 
and the Allied cavalry was let loose to run down the fleeing  French.   The 
Emperor  Napoleon was placed within a Guard's square and escorted from  the 
field.   Remnants  of  the Armee du Nord fought delaying actions  with  the 
Prussians  that  allowed  portions of the defeated army  to  escape  south.  
Field-Marshal  Blucher assembled his officers and ordered them to  commence 
an  "annihilating  pursuit."  His orders were carried out as  the  pursuing 
Prussians,  refusing  to  give quarter,  massacred at least  5,000  men  of 
Reille's corps on the road to Genappe.

The  time  was now 11:00 p.m.  and the sands had run out of  the  Emperor's 
clock.

                              ORDER OF BATTLE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             Anglo-Allied Army
                              Field Marshall
                     the Duke of Wellington commanding
                 ----------------------------------------

          
                                    I Corps
               His Royal Highness the Prince of Orange commanding

     
     troops                commander                   # men   flagname
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     1st Corps Artillery   Lt-Col Adye                         1 Corps
                           Lt-Col Williamson
                           Maj von Opstal
                           Maj van der Smissen

1st Division - Major General Cooke
     
     1st British Brigade   Maj-Gen Maitland            1,997   Maitlnd
     2nd British Brigade   Maj-Gen Sir John Byng       2,064   Byng
     
3rd Division - Lt-Gen Sir Charles Alten
     
     5th British Brigade   Maj-Gen Sir Colin Halkett   2,254   Halkett
     2nd King's German 
        Legion             Col von Ompteda             1,527   Ompteda
     1st Hanoverian        Maj-Gen Count
        Brigade               Kielmansegge             3,189   Kielman
     
2nd Dutch-Belgian Division - Lt-Gen Baron de Perponcher
     
     1st Brigade           Maj-Gen Count de Bylandt    3,233   Bylandt
     2nd Brigade           Prince Bernhard of
                              Saxe-Weimar              4,300   Bernhrd
     
3rd Dutch-Belgian Division - Lt-Gen Baron Chasse
     
     1st Brigade           Maj-Gen Ditmers             3,088   Ditmers
     2nd Brigade           Maj-Gen D'Aumbreme          3,581   D'Aumbr
     
               
                                    II Corps
                          Lt-Gen Lord Hill commanding

     troops                commander                   # men   flagname
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     2 Corps Artillery     Lt-Col Gold                         2 Corps
                           Lt-Col Hawker
     
2nd Division - Lt-Gen Sir H. Clinton
     
     3rd British Brigade   Maj-Gen Adam                2,625   Adam
     1st Brigade King's
        German Legion      Col du Plat                 1,758   Du Plat
     3rd Hanoverian Brig   Col Halkett                 2,454   3rd Han
     
     
     troops                commander                   # men   flagname
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------     
     
4th Division - Lt-Gen Sir Charles Colville
     
     4th Brigade           Col Mitchell                1,767   Mitchel
     6th British Brigade   Maj-Gen Johnstone           2,396   Johnstn
     6th Hanoverian Brig   Maj-Gen Sir James Lyon      3,049   Lyon
     
1st Dutch-Belgian Division - Lt-Gen Stedmann
     
     1st Brigade           Maj-Gen Hauw                3,109   Hauw
     2nd Brigade           Maj-Gen Eerens              3,280   Eerens
     Dutch-Belgian
        Indian Brigade     Lt-Gen Anthing              3,583   Anthing
     
Reserves
     
     Reserve Artillery     Maj Heisse                  1,225   Reserve
                           Lt-Col Brouckmann
                           Maj Mahn
     
5th Division - Lt-Gen Sir Thomas Picton
     
     8th British Brigade   Maj-Gen Sir James Kempt     2,471   Kempt
     9th British Brigade   Maj-Gen Sir James Pack      2,471   Pack
     5th Hanoverian Brig   Col von Vincke              2,514   Vincke
     
6th Division - Lt-Gen Hon. Sir L. Cole
     
     10th British Brigade  Maj-Gen Sir John Lambert    2,567   Lambert
     4th Hanoverian Brig   Col Best                    2,582   Best
     
Brunswick Corps - H.S.H The Duke of Brunswick
     
     Advanced Guard
        Battalion          Maj Von Rauschenplatt         672   Adv Grd
     Light Brigade         Lt-Col von Buttlar          2,688   Light
     Line Brigade          Lt-Col von Specht           2,016   Line
     
Nassau Contingent - General von Kruse                  2,880   Kruse
     
     
                                 Cavalry Corps
                    Lt-Gen the Earl of Uxbridge commanding                      

     troops                commander                   # men   flagname
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     
British and King's German Legion
     
     1st Brigade           Maj-Gen Lord E. Somerset    1,286   Somerst
     2nd Brigade           Maj-Gen Sir W. Ponsonby     1,181   Ponsnby
     3rd Brigade           Maj-Gen Sir W. Dornberg     1,268   Dornbrg
     4th Brigade           Maj-Gen Sir J. Vandeleur    1,171   Vndelur
     5th Brigade           Maj-Gen Sir Colq. Grant     1,336   Grant
     6th Brigade           Maj-Gen Sir H. Vivian       1,279   Vivian
     Horse Artillery       (Six batteries)             1,275   Hrs Art
     

     
     troops                commander                   # men   flagname
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     
Hanoverian
     
     1st Brigade           Col von Estorff             1,682   Estorff
     Brunswick Cavalry                                   922   Brnswck
     
Dutch Belgian
     
     1st Brigade           Maj-Gen Trip                1,237   Trip
     2nd Brigade           Maj-Gen de Ghigny           1,086   Ghigny
     3rd Brigade           Maj-Gen van Merien          1,082   Merien
     
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

     
                                 Armee du Nord
                     Emperor Napoleon Bonaparte commanding
                  ------------------------------------------
     
               Imperial Guard - Marshall Mortier, Duke of Treviso

     troops                commander                   # men   flagname
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     Imperial Guard        Lt-Gen Desvaux de
        Artillery             St. Meurice              3,175   Imp Grd
     Imperial Guard    
        Cavalry            Lt-Gen Lefebvre-Desnouettes
                           Lt-Gen Guyot                3,590   Imp Grd
     1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th
        Grenadiers         Lt-Gen Friant
                           Lt-Gen Roguet               4,377   Grnandr
     1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th
        Chasseurs          Lt-Gen Morand
                           Lt-Gen Michel               3,970   Chsseur
     1st, 3rd Tirailleurs  Lt-Gen Duheame              2,255   Trlleur
     1st, 3rd voltigeurs   Lt-Gen Barrois              2,775   Vltgeur
     
I Corps d'Armee - Lt-Gen Count D'Erlon commanding
     
     1 Corps Artillery                                 1,066   1 Corps
     1st Division          Lt-Gen Alix                 4,100   I Inf
     2nd Division          Lt-Gen Baron Donzelot       4,050   II Inf
     3rd Division          Lt-Gen Baron Marcognet      4,175   III Inf
     4th Division          Lt-Gen Count Durutte        3,775   IV Inf
     1st Cavalry Division  Lt-Gen Baron Jaquinot       1,400   I Cav
     
II Corps d'Armee - Lt-Gen Count Reille commanding
     
     2nd Corps Artillery                               1,385   2 Corps
     5th Division          Lt-Gen Baron Bachelu        4,775   V Inf
     6th Division          Prince Jerome Napoleon      5,550   VI Inf
     7th Division          Lt-Gen Count Girard         4,875   VII Inf
     9th Division          Lt-Gen Count Foy            4,975   IX Inf
     2nd Cavalry Division  Lt-Gen Baron Pire           1,729   II Div

          
VI Corps d'Armee - Lt-Gen Count Lobau commanding
     
     6th Corps Artillery                                743    6 Corps
     19th Division         Lt-Gen Baron Simmer         2,275   IXX Inf
     20th Division         Lt-Gen Baron Jeannin        2,575   XX Inf
     
Reserve Cavalry - Marshal Grouchy commanding
     
     Reserve Horse
        Artillery                                      1,185   Reserve
     3rd Corps             Lt-Gen Kellerman            3,245   3 Corps
     4th Corps             Lt-Gen Milhaud              2,556   4 Corps

Strengths  taken  from  D.  Gardener & Dorsay's  "Quatre  Bras,  Ligny  and 
Waterloo",  London  1882,  W.  Silborne's  War  in France  and  Belgium  as 
corrected by Colonel Charles C.  Chesney's "Waterloo Lectures:  a Study  of 
the  Campaign of 1815",  London 1868,  and Colonel  Jean-Baptiste  Charra's 
"Histoire de la Campagne de 1815":  Waterloo,  Brussels,  1851 as cited  as 
references in "Yours to Reason Why; Decision in Battle" by William Seymour, 
St. Martin's Press, 175 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 1982 pp. 292-298.

N.B.  The entire Prussian army and the right wing of the Armee du Nord  has 
been removed from this Order of Battle and The Universal Military Simulator 
Waterloo scenario in the interest of play balance.   Neither the  Prussians 
nor Grouchy's forces made an appearance on the battlefield until after  the 
issue had been well decided.
     
                    
GETTYSBURG
1-3 July 1863
Meade - Lee

After  defeating the Union Army of the Potomac under the command  of  Major 
General Joseph Hooker at Chancelorsville, Virginia (April 28 - May 5, 1863) 
General Robert Edward lee knew that he had perhaps one last chance to bring 
the  war  to  the  North  and  restore  European  confidence  in  a  viable 
Confederate States of America.   The American Civil War,  now in its second 
year,  had seen a string of brilliant Southern defensive victories -  First 
Bull Run,  The Seven Days,  Second Bull Run,  Frederiscksburg,  and now the 
most  crushing  Union defeat,  Chancelorsville - but  Lee's  only  previous 
attempt at invasion,  Antietam, had ended in disaster.  Now, as Union Major 
General U.S.  Grant held confederate Lt.  General Pemberton's army and  the 
key  to  the Mississippi River in the bag at besieged  Vicksburg,  and  the 
Union  Navy had all but blockaded the southern cotton industry out  of  the 
European  market,  Lee  must strike a decisive blow into the heart  of  the 
North.   On June 9, 1863, screened by General 'Jeb' Stuart's cavalry, Lee's 
Army  of  Northern  Virginia  started  north  on  its  journey  that  would 
ultimately end at the high water mark at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania.

The Army of the Potomac left its bivouac under the orders of General Hooker 
but would arrive in Pennsylvania with a new commander: Major General George 
Gordon Meade.  President Abraham Lincoln,  disgusted by Hooker's ineptitude 
at Chancelorsville,  had made Meade "The hard luck army's" fifth commanding 
general in two year's time following a tradition of firing losers in search 
of  a  winning  general.   Meade would be the Army of  the  Potomac's  last 
commander.  In his General Orders 67, issued on June 28, a scant three days 
before  the great conflict that awaited them,  Meade  wrote,  "The  country 
looks  to  this army to relieve it from the devastation and disgrace  of  a 
foreign invasion."

July 1,  1863, found both armies scattered about southern Pennsylvania with 
their respective commanders' having only a vague notion of their opponent's 
positions.   Ironically, the Confederate forces were arrayed north and west 
of  the  Union  troops.   The three-day battle would begin  at  5:00  a.m., 
Wednesday,  July  1  (the first day of the fiscal year  -  many  regimental 
officers were still busy completing their payrolls) when units of  Archer's 
Brigade,  Heth's Division,  A.P.  Hill's III Corps of the Army of  Northern 
Virginia  began receiving withering volleys from Union cavalry  pickets  of 
Gamble's brigade stationed west of MacPherson's Ridge.

First  brigade  commanders,  then  division commanders  and  finally  corps 
commanders  of  both sides issued urgent orders for reinforcements  as  the 
conflagration consumed more troops and more senior field officers.   By the 
end of the first day's fighting five successive Union generals had been  in 
command.

Daylight,  Thursday July 2, saw 68,000 Union troops stretched along a fish-
hook shaped series of hills and ridges south and east of Gettysburg  facing 
Lee's  60,000.   The  northeastern-most point on the line was  Culp's  Hill 
where after the battle two brothers,  one who fought with Meade,  the other 
with  Lee,  would be found,  both dead and only a few scant yards from  the 
farm  on  the hill where they grew up.   The Union line  extended  west  to 
Cemetary Hill,  where artillery batteries dug emplacements among the graves 
and  then curved south to Cemetary Ridge;  a north-south chain of  hillocks 
that  ended  in  the  twin Round Tops.   Bbig Round  Top  was  by  far  the 
commanding peak on the battlefield,  but was thickly wooded and  unsuitable 
for troops or artillery.   Its sister,  Little Round Top, had recently been 
deforested  and  would  become  the southern  anchor  of  the  Union  line.  
Currently,  however, the only troops on its summit were a small observation 
and signal station.

Lee's army ran along the perimeter of the Unio fish-hook extending over six 
miles  from  Longstreet's I Corps in the south to Ewell's II Corps  on  the 
northeast.   Meade,  in a textbook case of the use of interior lines, could 
pace a short two miles from Sickle's III Corps on the left to Slocum's  XII 
Corps  on  the right.   Against the advice of Longstreet  who  counseled  a 
defensive  battle,  Lee  had decided to force the Union left  and  roll  up 
Meade's line while advancing north.  Furthermore, Ewell on the extreme left 
was  to  attack Culp's Hill when he heard the sound  of  Longstreet's  pre-
assault artillery barrage six miles away.   It was a plan doomed to failure 
that  almost succeeded due to the incompetence of a tragicomedic Union  Maj 
General;  Dan  Sickles,  who would later be elected to the Congress of  the 
United States, invent the temporary insanity plea to win his acquital after 
murdering his wife's lover,  and in later years often visit the Smithsonian 
Institute  to  view  the  amputated leg that he  would  lose  this  day  at 
Gettysburg.

Against orders and traditional military dictums,  Sickles had stationed the 
two  divisions  of the III Corps a half mile in front of the  rest  of  the 
Union  line  in a peach orchard and in a boulder strewn area known  as  the 
Devil's Den.   At 3:30 p.m.,  the first opening salvos from the Confederate 
batteries alerted Meade to trouble on his left.   He arrived and watched in 
horror  as  Longstreet's  attack began to crumple the  III  Corps  and  the 
wounded and terrified streamed to the rear.

At  this moment Brigadier General Gouverneur K.  Warren,  Meade's Chief  of 
Engineers,  realized  that  Little  Round Top was "the  key  to  the  Union 
position" and on his own initiative ordered two brigades and a battery from 
the  newly  arrive  V Corps to race to the summit.   They  arrived  as  the 
Confederates  were  still scaling the western slopes and  flung  themselves 
into a vicious hand-to-hand fight that left both Union brigade dead.   Four 
hours later Longstreet's Corps,  now in possession of the peach orchard and 
the Devil's Den, had stalled short of its objective.

On the other side of the field Ewell's batteries had opened up on  schedule 
but were quickly silenced by the effective return fire of the Union  cannon 
stationed among the tombs and headstones on Cemetary Hill,  The Confederate 
attack finally stepped off at sunset and though vigorously  pressed,  ended 
in  failure.   The fight on the graveyard's slopes continued late into  the 
night  before recall was sounded and the two armies hunkered down to  await 
the inevitable final clash on the next day.

Both sides were still receiving reinforcements, almost hourly, until by the 
morning  of  July  3,  the  stage was set  with  97,000  Union  and  75,000 
Confederate players.  The positions of the Army of the Potomac and the Army 
of  Northern  Virginia had remained substantially unchanged for  two  days; 
only  Sicle's salient had been pushed in and the Union line extended  south 
to  the  Round  Tops.   Strategically,  the  situation  for  Lee  was  also 
unchanged,  though perhaps a bit more urgent.  his army, outnumbered and in 
hostile  territory,  had  been  living off the  land  and  had  practically 
stripped the surrounding countryside bare.  Again, Longstreet counseled Lee 
to place the army south and east of the Round Tops astride Meande's line of 
communications,  and force the northern general to attack.   Lee would have 
none of this and ordered a coup de main on the Union center spearheaded  by 
Pickett's  division who had arrived during the night,  Longstreet  replied, 
"no  15,000  men  ever  arrayed for battle can  take  that  position,"  and 
reluctantly began the preparations for the charge.

At 1:07 p.m.,  two guns of Captain Miller's battery stationed in the  peach 
orchard  fired  signal shells into the clear Pennsylvanian  sky.   At  1:08 
p.m.,  the 140 guns assembled by Lee's chief of Artillery,  Colonel  E.  P. 
Alexander, began the barrage; many at a distance of only 800 yards from the 
Union center.  Brigadier General Henry J. Hunt, meade's Chief of Artillery, 
withheld fire until the Confederate positions were located and then let fly 
with his batteries.  They then commenced to hammer away at each other, with 
no visible slackening, for almost two hours.

By  1863 the Art of the Artilleryman had made but one small advance to  the 
science in the last many centuries:  grapeshot;  a coffee can sized package 
of  little round iron balls that were fired out of the  smooth-bore  cannon 
like a giant shotgun.   An infantry division would find it quite impossible 
to  charge across a mile of open wheat field,  into the muzzles of over  50 
batteries firing double loads of grapeshot, and survive.

Colonel  Alexander's  assignment was to eliminate the Union  batteries  and 
inform  his superiors it was time to attack.   A little before  3:00  p.m., 
Brigadier General Hunt passed the order for the Union cannon to cease  fire 
and let the muzzles cool while ammunition was brought up from the rear.  At 
this point Alexander,  now desperate to see some signs of the effectiveness 
of his fire and almost out of shells, sent a message to Pickett, "For God's 
sake  come  quick;  the 18 guns are gone,  unless  you  advance  quick,  my 
ammunition  won't  let me support you properly."  Pickett in turn  rode  to 
Longstreet  to seek final approval.   Longstreet,  opposed to this  assault 
from the beginning, could only nod an ascent.  Pickett saluted and replied, 
"I am going to move forward, sir," turned, rode back to his troops and into 
immortality.

The Army of Northern Virginia quite possibly possessed the finest  fighting 
troops  on  the North American continent in July,  1863.   The  15,000  men 
gamely moved out to the command.  "Forward, guide center, march." towards a 
small  clump  of trees on Cemetary Ridge pointed out by  General  lee  from 
astride his warhorse, Traveler.  The Union batteries in the center reloaded 
with canisters of grapeshot and waited for the infantry to get within range 
while  the batteries on the flanks continued to lob exploding  shells  into 
Pickett's neatly ordered lines.

Then,  when only a few hundred yards of wheat field separated the attackers 
and  the defenders,  every cannon along the Union line slashed  out.   Less 
than  one percent of those who started off made those  yards.   Confederate 
Brigadier General Armistead actually reached the stone wall that marked the 
Union position,  and with his cap on his sword yelled,  "Follow me!" before 
he was shot down.   There is a monument there now that marks the high water 
mark of the Confederacy;  the closest Lee and the Army of Northern Virginia 
ever came to an offensive victory on northern soil.

Over  7,000 lay dead,  wounded or captured;  the rest recrossed  the  field 
still under continuous barrage, to be greeted by a devastated Lee who said, 
"All this has been my fault.   It is I that have lost this fight,  and  you 
must help me out of it in the best way you can."

The  next day,  during a torrential storm,  the Army of  Northern  Virginia 
started back south in a wagon train that stretched for 17 miles.   It would 
now  be  on  the defensive for the rest of its existence  until  the  final 
surrender on April 9, 1865.


                              ORDER OF BATTLE
                          The Army of the Potomac
                  Maj-Gen George Gordan Meade commanding
              ---------------------------------------------

     troops                commander                   # men   flagname
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     
I Army Corps - Maj-Gen John F. Reynolds commanding (killed July 1)
               Maj-Gen Abner Doubleday commanding
               Maj-Gen John Newton commanding     
     
     1st Corps Artillery   Col C.S.Wainwright                  1 Corps
     1st Division          Maj-Gen J.S. Wadsworth      3,400   Wdsworth
     2nd Division          Brig-Gen John C. Robinson   3,200   Robinson
     3rd Division          Maj-Gen Abner Doubleday     3,300   Dbleday
     
II Army Corps - Maj-Gen Winfield S. Hancock commanding
                Brig-Gen John Gibbon
     
     2nd Corps Artillery   Capt J.G. Hazard              950   II Corps
     1st Division          Brig-Gen John C. Caldwell   4,300   Caldwell
     2nd Division          Brig-Gen John Gibbon
                           Brig-Gen William Harrow     4,500   Gibbon
     3rd Division          Brig-Gen Alexander Hays     4,400   Hays
     
III Army Corps - Maj-Gen Daniel E. Sickles commanding
                 Maj-Gen D.B. Birney
     
     3rd Corps Artillery   Capt George E. Randolph       950   III Corp
     1st Division          Maj-Gen D.B. Birney
                           Maj-Gen J.J.H. Ward         6,200   Birney
     2nd Division          Brig-Gen A.A. Humphreys     6,100   Hmfhreys
     
V Army Corps - Maj-Gen George Sykes commanding
     
     5th Corps Artillery   Capt A.P. Martin              770   V Corps
     1st Division          Brig-Gen James Barnes       4,500   Barnes
     2nd Division          Brig-Gen R.B. Ayres         4,300   Ayres
     3rd Division          Brig-Ben S.W. Crawford      4,400   Crawford
     
VI Army Corps - Maj-Gen John Sedgwick commanding
     
     6th Corps Artillery   Col C.H. Tompkins             900   VI Corps
     1st Division          Brig-Gen H.G. Wright        5,200   Wright
     2nd Division          Brig-Gen A.P. Howe          5,150   Howe
     3rd Division          Brig-Gen Frank Wheaton      5,250   Wheaton
     
XI Army Corps - Maj-Gen O.O. Howard commanding
     
     11th Corps Artillery  Maj T.W. Osborn               875   XI Corps
     1st Division          Brig-Gen F.C. Barlow
                           Brig-Gen Adelbert Ames      3,500   Barlow
     2nd Division          Brig-Gen A. von Steinwehr   3,500   Steinwhr
     3rd Division          Brig-Gen Carl Schurz        3,200   Shurz
     

     troops                commander                   # men   flagname
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     
XII Army Corps - Maj-Gen H.W. Slocum commanding
     
     12th Corps Artillery  Lt. Edward D. Muhlenberg      575   XII Corp
     1st Division          Brig-Gen Alpheus Williams   4,300   Williams
     2nd Division          Brig-Gen John W. Geary      4,250   Geary
     
Army Artillery Reserve - Brig-Gen R.O. Taylor commanding
                         Capt John M. Robertson
                    
     1st Regular Brig    Capt D.R. Ransom                600   1st Reg
     1st Volunteer Brig  Lt-Col F. McGilvery             550   2nd Vol
     2nd Volunteer Brig  Capt E.D. Taft                  575   2nd Vol
     3rd Volunteer Brig  Capt James F. Huntington        560   3rd Vol
     4th Volunteer Brig  Capt R.H. Fitzhugh              550   4th Vol
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
     
                         The Army of Northern Virginia
                        General Robert E. Lee commanding
                     -------------------------------------
     
     troops                commander                   # men   flagname
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     
I Corps - Lt-Gen James Longstreet commanding
     
     1st Corps Artillery   Col J.B. Walton               550   I Corps
     
1st Division - Maj-Gen John B. Hood
     
     1st Division
        Artillery          Maj M.W. Henry                300   Henry
     1st Brigade           Brig-Gen D.R. Anderson      2,700   Anderson
     2nd Brigade           Brig-Gen H.L. Bennings      2,500   Bennings
     3rd Brigade           Brig-Gen E.M. Law
                           Col James L. Sheffield      2,200   Law
     4th Brigade           Brig-Gen J.B. Robertson     2,100   Robertsn
     
2nd Division - Maj-Gen Lafayette McLaws
     
     2nd Division
        Artillery          Col H.C. Cabell               250   Cabell
     1st Brigade           Brig-Gen W. Barksdale
                           Col B.G. Humphreys          2,200   Barksdal
     2nd Brigade           Brig-Gen J.B. Kershaw       1,900   Kershaw
     3rd Brigade           Brig-Gen W.T. Wofford       2,000   Wofford
     4th Brigade           Brig-Gen P.J. Semmes        
                           Col Goode Bryan             1,900   Semmes
     
     
     troops                commander                   # men   flagname
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     
3rd Division - Maj-Gen George E. Pickett
     
     3rd Division
        Artillery          Maj James Dearing             350   Dearing
     1st Brigade           Brig-Gen J.L. Kemper        2,750   Kemper
     2nd Brigade           Brig-Gem A. Armistead
                           Col W.R. Aylett             2,800   Armisted
     3rd Brigade           Brig-Gen R.B. Garnett
                           Maj George C. Cabell        2,750   Garnett

     
II Corps - Lt-Gen Richard S. Ewell commanding
     
     2nd Corps Artillery   Col J. Thompson Brown         450   II Corps
     
1st Division - Maj-Gen Jubal A. Early
     
     1st Division
        Artillery          Lt-Col H.P. Jones             350   H. Jones
     1st Brigade           Brig-Gen William Smith
                           Col John s. Hoffman         2,750   W. Smith
     2nd Brigade           Brig-Gen R.F. Hoke
                           Col Isaac E. Avery          
                           Col A.C. Godwin             2,850   Hoke
     3rd Brigade           Brig-Gen Harry T. Hays      2,400   H. Hays
     4th Brigade           Brig-Gen J.B. Gordon        2,200   Gordon
     
2nd Division - Maj-Gen Edward Johnson
     
     2nd Division
        Artillery          Lt-Col R.S. Andrews           450   Andrews
     1st Brigade           Brig-Gen John M. Jones
                           Lt-Col R.H. Dungan
                           Col B.T. Johnson            2,450   J. Jones
     2nd Brigade           Brig-Gen James A. Walker    2,250   Walker
     3rd Brigade           Brig-Gen George H. Stewart  2,400   Stewart
     4th Brigade           Col J.M. Williams           1,600   Williams
     
3rd Division - Maj-Gen R.E. Rodes
     
     3rd Division
        Artillery          Lt-Col Thomas H. Carter       350   Carter
     1st Brigade           Brig-Gen E.A. Neal          2,500   Neal
     2nd Brigade           Brig-Gen S.D. Ramseur       2,600   Ramseur
     3rd Brigade           Brig-Gen George Doles       2,250   Doles
     4th Brigade           Brig-Gen Alfred Iverson
                           Brig-Gen S.D. Ramseur       2,150   Iverson
     5th Brigade           Brig-Gen Junius Daniel      1,875   Daniel

     troops                commander                   # men   flagname
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------     
          
III Corps - Lt-Gen Ambrose P. Hill Commanding
     
     3rd Artillery         Col R.L. Walker               450   III Corp
     
1st Division - Maj-Gen R.H. Anderson
     
     1st Division
        Artillery          Maj John Lane                 350   Lane
     1st Brigade           Brig-Gen William Mahone     2,750   Mahone
     2nd Brigade           Brig-Gen A.R. Wright        
                           Col William Gibson
                           Col E.J. Walker
                           Col B.C. McCurry                         
                           Col C.H. Anderson           2,500   Wright
     3rd Brigade           Col David Lang
                           Brig-Gen E.A. Perry         2,400   Lang
     4th Brigade           Brig-Gen Carnot Posey       2,200   Posey
     5th Brigade           Brig-Gen C.M. Wilcox        1,000   Wilcox
     
2nd Division - Maj-Gen William D. Pender
               Brig-Gen James H. Lane
          
     2nd Division
        Artillery          William T. Poague             350   Pague