PROTOCOL PRESENTS A DOX FOR   L.S.D.   DOCUMENTS DISKS.

HYPER TYPED BY     THE SPEED DEMON     IN 1991

                                  RISK
                                  ====

THE RULES OF RISK ..................................................... 4
PLAYING RISK .......................................................... 6
RISK QUESTIONS ........................................................ 14
RISK FOR TWO PLAYERS .................................................. 17
RULES FOR SHORTER PLAY ................................................ 19
U.K. GAME VARIANTS .................................................... 20
LOADING ............................................................... 22
CONTROL METHODS ....................................................... 23
THE SETUP MENU ........................................................ 26
GAME SETUP ............................................................ 29
WHEN IT`S YOUR TURN ................................................... 30
INFORMATION ........................................................... 33
GAME VARIATIONS ....................................................... 34

                              --- Page 4 ---

In this classic game of military strategy, you battle to conquer the world.
To win, you ust launch daring attacks, defend yourself on all fronts and
sweep across vast continents with boldness and cunning. However you must
remember the dangers, as well as the rewards, are high. Just when the world
is within your grasp... your opponent might strike and take it all away!

OBJECT
   To eliminate your opponents by occupying every territory. The first
   player to do so wins the game and conquers the world.

THE MAP
   On the screen is a map of six continents divided into 42 territories. The
   map is designed to facilitate play rather than to be geographically
   accurate.

THE ARMIES
   The number of armies will be shown by the number displayed in each
   individual territory.

THE RISK CARDS
   There are 44 RISK cards: one representing each of the 42 territories and
   two "wild cards". In the game, each card is marked with a picture of
   Infantry, Cavalry, or Artillery.

                              --- Page 5 ---

INITIAL PLACEMENT OF ARMIES
Unlike most games, RISK demands careful planning even before you actually
start to play. This part of the game sets the stage for the battles you wil
fight later on.

   1. The initial number of armies is determined by the number of players.
      If 2 are playing each player will receive 40 armies.
      If 3 are playing each player will receive 35 armies.
      If 4 are playing each player will receive 30 armies.
      If 5 are playing each player will receive 25 armies.
      If 6 are playing each player will receive 20 armies.

   2. Roll the dice. Whoever rolls the highest number places one of their
      armies onto any unoccupied territory, thus claiming that territory.

   3. Everyone, in turn, places one army onto any unoccupied territory until
      all territories have been claimed.

   4. After all 42 territories have been claimed, each player, in turn,
      places one army onto any territory that they already occupy. Play
      continues in this way until everyone has run out of armies.

      (There is a limit of 750 armies a player may place on a territory).

   5. Play begins with whoever placed the first army.

                              --- Page 6 ---

On your turn, try to capture territories by defeating your opponents`
armies. But be careful. Winning your battles will depend on careful
planning, quick decision and bold moves. You`ll have the place your forces
wisely, attack at just the right time and fortify your defenses against all
enemies.

   Each turn consists of three steps.

   1. Getting and placing new armies.
   2. Attacking.
   3. Fortify your position.

GETTING AND PLACING NEW ARMIES
   At the beginning of each turn - including your first turn - you receive
   additional armies. You may immediately place these armies onto any one
   or more of your territories. You receive armies according to the number
   of territories you occupy, the number of continents you control, and the
   number of matched sets of RISK cards you trade in.

TERRITORIES
   At the beginning of your turn you receive armies based on the territories
   you occupy. The computer will count the number of territories you
   currently occupy, then divide the total by 3, discarding any fraction.
   The answer is the number of armies you receive.

                              --- Page 7 ---

   Example:
   11 territories = 3 armies
   14 territories = 4 armies
   17 territories = 5 armies

   You always receive at least three armies on a turn, even if occupy fewer
   than nine territories.

CONTINENTS
   At the beginning of your turn, you also receive armies for each continent
   you control. (To control a continent, you must occupy all its territories
   at the start of your turn).

   The number of armies you`ll receive is:

   North America  5 armies                   South America 2 armies
   Africa         3 armies                   Asia          7 armies
   Europe         5 armies                   Australia     2 armies

RISK CARDS
   Earning RISK cards help you to get more armies. You earn one RISK card at
   the end of each turn that you capture a territory. Then at the beginning
   of subsequent turns, you receive additional armies for each matched set of
   RISK cards you trade in.

RISING SETS
   To make a match, you must have one of the following combinations: three
   cards of the same suit (Cavalry, Artillery, Infantry); three cards of
   different suits; or any two cards plus a "wild" card.

                              --- Page 8 ---

   The number of armies you receive for each matched set is as follows:

   The first set traded in    - 4 armies
   The second set traded in   - 5 armies
   The third set traded in    - 8 armies
   The fourth set traded in   - 10 armies
   The fifth set traded in    - 12 armies
   The sixth set traded in    - 15 armies

a) After the sixth set has been traded in, each additional set is worth
   five more armies.

   Example: If you trade in the seventh set, you get 20 armies; if you trade
   in the eight set you get 25 armies, and so on.

b) "First" and "second" set etc., refer to sets traded in by anyone during
   the game. Thus, if you trade in the third set in the game, you receive
   eight armies, even if it is your first set.

c) Once you have five RISK cards, you MUST trade in the resulting matched
   set at the beginning of your next turn.

d) If any of the three cards you trade in represent a territory you occupy,
   you receive two extra armies. But you must place both those armies onto
   that particular territory.

                              --- Page 9 ---

   On a single turn, you may receive no more than two extra armies. This is
   true no matter how many matched sets of cards you trade in on that turn.
   No matter how many armies you receive at the start of your turn, deploy
   them carefully - either to prepare an attack of to defend against one.

FIXED SETS
   A variation to make for a more challenging game is to play with a fixed
   value for each set of cards.

   A set of 3 artillery    = 4 armies
   A set of 3 infantry     = 6 armies
   A set of 3 cavalry      = 8 armies
   A combination (on of each suit) = 10 armies

   Wild cards still count as any.

                              --- Page 10 ---

ATTACKING
   After placing your armies, you may attack if you wish. An attack is
   actually one or more battles which are fought with dice. The object of an
   attack if to capture a territory by defeating all the opposing armies
   already on it.

   If you wish to attack, you must follow these rules:

a) You may only attack a territory that`s adjacent to one of your own.
   Territories lying next to each other are adjacent.

   Example:
   Greenland is adjacent to the Northwest Territory and North Africa is
   adjacent to Egypt.

   Territories connected by lines are also adjacent.

   Example: North Africa is adjacent to Brazil and Alaska is adjacent to
   Kamchatka.

b) You must always have at least two armies in the territory from which you
   are attacking.

   To attack, first select both the territory you are attacking and the one
   from which you are attacking. The computer will then roll the dice
   automatically.

c) You, the attacker, are allowed to roll one, two or three dice, but you
   must have at least one more army in your territory than the number of
   dice you roll, the greater your odds of winning.

   Yet - as you will learn later - the more dice you roll, the more armies
   you may lose.

                              --- Page 11 ---

d) The defender may roll either one or two dice. To roll two dice, however,
   they must have at least two armies on the territory under attack. The
   more dice the defender rolls, the greater their chances of winning. Yet
   more dice the defender rolls, the more armies they may lose.

   The battle is decided by comparing the highest die that each of you has
   rolled. If you die is higher, the defender loses one army from the
   territory under attack. If the defender`s die is higher, you lose one army
   from your territory of attack. Then, if each of you has rolled more than
   one die, compare the next-highest dice and repeat the procedure.
   IN CASE OF A TIE, THE DEFENDER ALWAYS WINS.

                              --- Page 12 ---

One a single turn, you may:

e) Attack one or more adjacent territories from one or more of your own
   territories.

f) Shift your attack from one territory to another, attacking each as often
   as you like.

CAPTURING TERRITORIES
   As soon as you defeat the last opposing army on a territory, you capture
   that territory and must occupy it immediately. To do so, move in at least
   as many armies as the number of dice you rolled in your last battle.
   However always leave at least one army behind. During the game, every
   territory must always be occupied by at least one army.

ENDING YOUR ATTACK
   You may end your attack at any time. You will then be given one RISK card
   if you have captured one or more territories on your turn.

ELIMINATING AN OPPONENT
   If, during your turn, eliminate an opponent by defeating their last army,
   you win any RISK cards that player has. If, by doing so, you then hold
   six or more cards, you must immediately trade in matched sets until you
   have four or fewer cards. In this way, you earn additional armies, which
   you immediately place onto any territory or territories you occupy.

REMEMBER: If you don`t want to attack on your turn, you don`t have to.

                              --- Page 13 ---

FORTIFYING YOUR POSSITION
   At the end of your turn you may, if you wish, strengthen your position.
   To do this, move as many of your armies as you like from one (and only
   one) of your territories into one (and only one) of your adjacent
   territories.

a) In moving your armies from one territory to another, you must have at
   least one army behind.

b) No matter what you`ve done on your turn, you may, if you wish, end it by
   fortifying your position. To fortify your position, you are not required
   to win a battle or even try an attack.

   This procedure can also be referred to as the "Free Move".

WINNING
   The winner is the first player to eliminate every opponent by capturing
   all 42 territories on the board.

                              --- Page 14 ---

                               RISK QUESTIONS

Q. When I place my armies at the beginning of the game, what strategy should
   I use?

A. If possible, try to occupy an entire continent at the beginning of the
   game. This will give you additional armies right from the start. If this
   is not possible, try to occupy as many adjacent territories as you can.
   Then, after all the territories have been claimed, place your remaining
   armies on your border territories as a line of defense against possible
   attack. At all costs, try not to scatter your territories around the
   board. Doing so will weaken your position. Your territories will be
   isolated from one another and subject to capture.

Q. When to I receive additional armies?

A. Whenever you start your turn, you receive additional armies based on the
   territories, continents and RISK cards you already control. However, if
   you eliminate an opponent during your turn, you immediately receive
   whatever additional armies that opponent`s RISK cards entitle you to
   receive.

                              --- Page 15 ---

Q. Where should I place my additional armies?

A. If you wish to attack, place some of your armies onto the territories
   from which you plan to attack. Then place the remaining armies onto any
   of your weakened border territories. If you are in a purely defensive
   position, place all your armies onto weakened border territories.

Q. How many RISK cards can I win on a single turn?

A. No matter how many territories you capture on a turn, you get only one
   RISK card at the end of that turn.

Q. Should I trade in RISK cards as soon as I make a match?

A. Not necessarily. There are three reasons why you might want to save a
   matched set:
   1. By waiting until your opponents turn in sets, you increase the number
      of armies you`ll receive for your set.
   2. If you are on the defensive, you might want to save any additional
      armies until you are ready to attack.
   3. Since you win two extra armies whenever one of the cards you trade in
      matches the territory you occupy, you might want to wait until you
      occupy the territory before trading in the set (see Exchanging Cards,
      Page 32).

Q. How long may I attack on a turn?

A. On a single turn, you may if you wish, attack any adjacent territories
   for as long as you like, provided you have at least two armies on the
   territory you`re attacking from.

                              --- Page 16 ---

Q. What is the advantage of not attacking on my turn?

A. By not attacking on your turn, you avoid two things. First, you avoid a
   possible loss of armies. Second, you avoid spreading yourself too thin by
   moving armies from one territory into another.

Q. When I am attacking or defending, how many dice should I roll?

A. As you have no doubt learned, the more dice you roll, the greater your
   odds of winning. Yet, at the same time, the more dice you roll, the more
   armies you might lose. When attacking or defending, weight the importance
   of these two factors. Then roll accordingly.

Q. When should I stop attacking and end my turn?

A. To win, you must attack and conquer territory. Yet this does not mean
   that you should attack every adjacent territory every turn. The longer
   you attack, the more armies you may lose and the more spread out and
   vulnerable you`ll be. After all, the more territories you occupy, the
   fewer the armies you`ll likely to have on each one. This might make it
   easier for your opponents to capture your territories and perhaps even
   eliminate you from the game.

                              --- Page 17 ---

                            RISK for Two Players

This version is played like regular RISK, with one important exception.
Along with your armies and those of your opponent, there are also "neutral"
armies on the board. During the game, these "neutral" armies act as a buffer
between you and your opponent. This feature gives the two-player version
much the same strategic flavour as that found in regular RISK.

INITIAL PLACEMENT
   You and your opponent each select 40 armies. The computer selects a third
   to be set "neutral." The computer will randomly distribute the
   territories. After every territory on the board has been claimed, take
   turns placing the remaining armies. On your turn, place three armies on
   the board: two armies into any one or two of the territories you occupy
   and one army onto any "neutral" territory. Place it to block your
   opponent`s possible advance.

                              --- Page 18 ---

ATTACKING
   On your turn, you may attack any territory adjacent to one of your own.
   Whenever you attack a "neutral" territory, the computer rolls to defend
   that "neutral" territory. "Neutral" armies cannot attack and never
   receive reinforcements during the game.

WINNING
   To win, be the first to eliminate your opponent by capturing all of their
   territories.
a) To win, you do not have to eliminate the "neutral" armies.
b) Usually, the "neutral" armies are eliminated before the end of the game.
   If this happens, don`t worry. Play continues until one player defeats
   the other.

                              --- Page 19 ---

                           RULES FOR SHORTER PLAY

HEADQUARTERS
1. After deploying your armies at the beginning of the game, select one of
the territories you`ve claimed and make it your Headquarters. Do not reveal
the territory you`ve chosen.

2. Everyone, in turn, selects a Headquarters. Once everyone has done this
the Headquarters are revelaed to all players and the computer automatically
removes the card from the deck.

3. The object of this game is to capture all opposing Headquarters. The
first player to capture these territories, whilse also controlling their own
Headquarters, is the winner.

4. The game may be shortened even further by setting a lower number of
Headquarters to be occupied.

                              --- Page 20 ---

                             U.K. GAME VARIANTS

The UK standard game is played differently from the one played in the US.
All the UK options have been included for added variety.

INITIAL PLACEMENT OF ARMIES (U.K. Variant)
   At the beginning of the game territories are chosen randomly, instead of
   being chosen by the players. The computer will automatically choose
   random territories for all players.

MISSION CARDS (UK Standard Game)
   Each player is dealt a mission card by the computer at the beginning of
   the game. Players may look at their mission card after the initial
   distribution of territories, and at any time during their turn.

   The player wins the game by fulfilling the mission described on their
   card. The mission card in computer RISK is displayed on the right of the
   screen, and may be examined by selecting it with the sword pointer.

   If fewer than six players are playing, the mission cards referring to
   non-participating plays are removed from the pack. This action is auto-
   matically done by the computer.

COMPLETING A MISSION
   The player who first carries out the objective as defined on his/her
   mission card exposes the card for the other player to check and wins the
   game.

   If player number 1 fulfills the mission of player number 2 (by, for
   example, eliminating all player number 3`s armies), the second player`s
   mission now changes to "Conquer 24 territories."

UK TWO-PLAYER GAME
   The object of the game is to eliminate the opponents` armies and the
   first to do is the winner regardless of the neutral`s standing at the
   time. Play is as in the main game except as modified below.

   Example: A player owns 19 territories and controls Africa. The player
   will receive 6+3=9 armies. The neutral receives 4 armies.

   The computer distributes the extra neutral armies in neutral-held regions
   at random before the first player has developed reinforcements.

   The neutral never attacks and therefore does not receive RISK cards and
   may not redeploy.

                              --- Page 22 ---

                                LOADING RISK

IBM - Boot the computer (using DOS 2.1 or later). Insert the appropriate
Disk into Drive A: on your computer.

Type RISK and press RETURN

You will be prompted to select the input device (Microsoft compatible Mouse,
Joystick or Keyboard) that you wish to use. If you select Mouse, RISK
assumes that you already have your mouse driver loaded. RISK installs its
own special drivers if you select Joystick or Keyboard.

ATARI ST and APPLE MACINTOSH - Switch on the computer and insert the disk.
The program will autoboot.

COMMODORE AMIGA - Switch on the computer and boot as usual (inserting the
Kickstart disk if you have an A1000). Insert the RISK disk when the
workbench prompt appears.

As RISK loads it first displays a title screen and then the credits. Press a
key or button to continue. When RISK has loaded, you will be prompted to
select an option from the menus.

                              --- Page 23 ---

                              CONTROL METHODS

IBM PC
Computer RISK allows you to play all of the versions of the game described
in the first section of this manual, and many more besides. Computer RISK is
a "menu-driven program". This means that you control it by "pulling donw"
menus and selecting actions from them. The Computer RISK menus contain all
the actions that you require to play RISK.

To pull down a menu, move the sword pointer using a Microsoft Compatible
Mouse, Joystick or the Cursor keys (depending on which input device you
selected earlier) to point at the appropriate menu and press the left hand
mouse button (or joystick fire button, or 5 on the keypad). Try this now:
move the sword up to the RISK menu at the top left hand side of the screen.
(If you are using the keyboard, you can vary the speed of the pointer by
pressing keys F1 (slow) through F10 (fast).

Once you have pulled down the menu, you will see a list of options (on the
RISK menu there is only one - About RISK). By moving the pointer down the
list you can highlightthe options you require; try this now by selecting

                              --- Page 24 ---

About RISK. If you did everything correctly, you will be shown a screenful
of information about the program. In the bottom right hand corner is the
word OK in a circle. Press this "button" with the sword when you have seen
enough.
Hint: Pressing the Return key on the keyboard has the same effect as
pressing the OK button and saves you moving the sword pointer.

To cancel a menu if you pull it down by accident, simply move the sword
pointer off it and press the button.

At some stages of the game items in the menus cannot be selected; for
example you can`t select Show Cards in the PLAY menu unless you have some
RISK cards to show. The option will be displayed "dimmed" to indicate this.

Some of the frequently used options on the PLAY menu can be selected
automatically using the special "Hot Keys" on the keyobard, so you don`t
have to go to the trouble of pulling the menu down. These will be descroibed
later.

ATARI ST
Computer RISK uses the standard GEM conventions.

COMMODORE AMIGA
Computer RISK uses the standard "Intuition" conventions.

APPLE MACINTOSH
Computer RISK uses the standard Apple Macintosh conventions. An Apple
Macintosh has only one mouse button. This is equivalent to the "left mouse
button" on the other computers where this is referred to later in the
manual.

                              --- Page 25 ---

                              THE PLAY SCREEN

RISK is played on a map of the world. On the CGA, Tandy, Atari ST and Amiga
versions of Computer RISK only part of the play map is shown at one time
(the screen resolution is insufficient to show the entire world map). The
portion of the map that is displayed can be changed by moving teh mouse
whilst holding down the right hand button (or by moving the joystick whilst
holding down the secondary fire button, or by selecting "Num Lock" on the
keyboard and using the cursor keys on the IBM.) Remember to release/deselect
the "Num Lock" key when you don`t need to move the map otherwise the
computer will get comfused as to which part of the map display when it tries
to move the map itself.

On the EGA and Hercules versions the entire map is displayed at once as the
right mouse button is not used. (On the Apple Macintosh version, the entire
play map is displayed at onec so these is no need for a second mouse
button).

At the bottom of the screen is a blank area. Computer RISK will display
messages in this area to inform you what is happening.

The RISK card represented at the right of the screen acts in different ways
when you select it depending on which game type you are playing.

STARTING A GAME

To start a game of computer RISK, pull down the FILE menu and selectc New
Game. You will be prompted for the total number of players (both human and
computer-controlled) that wish to play. Select the number "pressing" the
appropriate button. Hint: On the IBM, Atari ST or Apple Macintosh, to select
the default reply ("6" in this case, shown in a button with a horizontal
boundary) you need only press the RETURN key.

                              --- Page 26 ---

                              THE SETUP MENU

Next you will be prompted to enter each player`s name. To accpet the
default, simply select the OK button or press RETURN. To reject the default
name and enter your own, ensure the edit box is "live" (if necessary, select
it with the sword pointer) and then enter your own name. When you are happy,
select the OK button.

Now you will be prompted for the skill level of the player whose name has
just been entered. For human players select the "Human" button, otherwise
select one of the computer levels. They all play a fairly good game, but the
Good player is more cautios, and the Easy player more careless than the
Standard player.

Finally you will be asked to select the game type you wish to play. Computer
RISK supports four standard games, the primary game types offered in the two
versions of the board game:

   UK FULL GAME
   English card graphics are used.
   Initial territory selection is random.
   Card set exchange rates are fixed by set type.
   The first player to conquer the World wins.

   US FULL GAME
   American card graphics are used.
   Initial territory selection is manual.
   Card set exchange rates increase.
   The first player to conquer the World wins.

                              --- Page 27 ---

   UK SHORT GAME
   English card graphics are used.
   Initial territory selection is random.
   Card set exchange rates are fixed by set type.
   The first player to complete a mission wins.

   US SHORT GAME
   American card graphics are used.
   Initial territory selection is manual.
   Card set exchange rates increase.
   The first player to occupy the enemy HQs wins.

In addition, computer RISK allows you to design your own game using any of
the available options. For example, you could set up a UK SHORT game with
missions, but with manual territory selection and increasing rather than
fixed set exchange rate.

Finally, if you elected to design your own game, there is a special option
available to you - Special Setup. When this option is On, the initial
territory setup AND reinforcing is done randomly for all players. This
speeds the game setup considerably, and reduces some of the advantage that
experienced players have over beginners, in knowing where to concentrate
their armies at the beginning of a game.

If at any stage you make a mistake, you can press the ESC key on the
keyboard to start again.

                              --- Page 28 ---

UK SHORT GAME
If you elected this game type, then the missions will be displayed at this
point. You can elect whether or not to see the computer player missions
(cheat!). Each player will be prompted to view their mission in turn (so
that other human players can look away from the screen). When your mission
has been viewed, press the MISSION button.

                              --- Page 29 ---

                                 GAME SETUP

PLACING THE ARMIES
If the initial territory selection is random, then the computer will
automatically place armies for each player until every territory is
occupied. If the Special Setup has been selected then the computer will
place ALL of the armies for each player.

Computer players will place their armies automatically. The message area at
the bottom of the screen will tell you what is going on.

When your turn comes to place an army, you will be prompted to do so and the
sword pointer will turn into a compass pointer and you will be able to move
it over the map on the screen (CGA, Atari ST and Amiga users, remember that
you cal also scroll the map). The territory that you are over will appear at
the bottom of the message area. To select the required territory, press the
left mouse button.

If you make a mistake, an error message will be displayed. Select OK or
press RETURN to continue.

US SHORT GAME
If you selected this game type, then each player in turn will be able to
select their Headquarters after all the initial armies have been placed (so
bear this in mind when you are placing your initial armies!). You will also
be prompted for the number of HQs that must be occupied to win the game. For
a very short game, set this to 2 (yours and 1 other). For a longer game, use
more.

                              --- Page 31 ---

                            WHEN ITS YOUR TURN

REINFORCING
At the start of your turn, you will be given at least three armies with
which to reinforce your territories that you occupy. You may place these
armies in any territory or territories that you occupy. First select the
territory and then select the number of armies you wish to place there
(either by accepting the deault or entering the exact number you require).
You must repeat this operation until all of your reinforcements have been
placed. If you select the wrong territory by accident, you can press the ESC
key (on the Macintosh the "clover leaf" key and full stop/period) to avoid
hacing to place armies there.

MAKING AN ATTACK
Pull down the PLAY menu and select New Attack (or press the "N" Hot Key).
Next select one of your territories to attack from, and an adjacent enemy
territory to attack. Press the ESC key (the "clover leaf" key and full
stop/period on the Macintosh) if you make a mistake and want to cancel the
attack. Next you must select the number of dice you are going to use in the
atack. Note that if you have only three armies in the territory you are
atacking from you can use only one or two dice. If you have only two armies
then one die is selected automatically. Next your opponent will choose the
number of dice he wishes to defend with. Then, the dice roll and battle is
engaged. The dice will be shown at the middle right of the screen near the
RISK card. The computer automatically removes the armies lost from each
side. If you have destroyed your opponent`s last army, you will be asked how
many armies you wish to invade with, and the appropriate number will be
moved into the captured territory. Remember, if you throw three dice, you
must move in at least three armies!

                              --- Page 31 ---

REPEATING AN ATTACK
If you did not manage to invade the territory after the first battle, you
can select Repeat Attack in the Play menu (or press the "R" Hot Key). Doing
this avoids the need to reselect the territories involved.

CONTINUOUS ATTACK and DO OR DIE ATTACK
These two special options automatically continue attacks started by New
Attack or Repeat Attack. When they are enabled, a check mark appears next
the them in the menu. Selecting them a second time disables them a removes
the check mark. Continuous Attack will automatically repeat an attack (using
the same territories and dice selections) until the attacker loses a battle
or the defender is destroyed. Do Or Die Attack will repeat an attack until
the defender is destroyed or the attacker has only one army left. These
options cannot be enabled simultaneously. These options can be selected at
any time (including when no game is in progress, ready for the start of a
new game).

SHOWING CARDS
If you have one or more RISK cards then the Show Cards option in the PLAY
menu (or Hot Key "C") will show them to you, along with the value of the
next set to be exchanged. Select OK to redisplay the main screen.

                              --- Page 32 ---

MAKING A FREE MOVE
At the end of your turn you can, if you wish, move armies from one territory
to reinforce an adjacent territory. This is known as the Free Move and is
selected from the PLAY menu (or press "F" Hot Key). You will be prompted for
the territories and the number of armies involved and the move will take
place. If you are not playing with the Supply Lines game variant (see Game
Variations), your turn will be ended automatically, otherwise you can
continue so select Free Move until you choose to end your turn. Once you`ve
made a free move you can`t take it back by pressing the ESC key.

ENDING YOUR TURN
To end your turn, select End Turn from the PLAY menu or press the ESC key
(or "clover leaf" key and full stop/period on the Macintosh). If you have
conquered one or more territories during your turn, you are awarded a RISK

EXCHANGING CARDS
The computer will automatically detect if you can make a set of RISK cards
from those held in your hand and if so it will give you the opportunity of
exchanging them at the beginning of  your turn. You MUST exchnage a set if
you have five cards or more. Select three cards to exchange by moving the
sword pointer to the required cards and pressing the left mouse button. The
selectefd cards will be highlighted. If you make a mistake, select the card
a second time and choose again. When you are happy with your choice, selecxt
Exchange. If you deicde you don`t want to exchange after all, select Cancel.

Two additional bonus armies are awarded for each card you exchange showing a
territory that you occupy. These are placed in that territory. In the US
version of the game, this only applies to the first match of this kind per
turn.

                              --- Page 33 ---

                                INFORMATION

The INFO menu contains information to hepl you make decisions about your
strategy. These options are also available after a game allowing you to
analyse the end result.

Battles present you with a "leagus table" showing who has won aqnd lost the
most battles and invasions.

Territories shows you the number of territories, continents and armies owned
by each player, as well as a conversipon chart showing the number of bonus
armies available for holding the entire continents.

Cards show you the number of RISK cards held by each player (but not what
they are!). Select OK to return to the main play screen.

Full Map (CGA, Tandy, Atari ST and Amiga only) displays a full screen map of
the World (without army numbers), showing the distribution of territories
amongst the players. Press a key or button to return to the main play
screen.

Key (Macintosh only) shows the patterns used to shade the territories for
each player. (On the other computers there is enough room on the screen to
keep the key permanently displayed).

THE RISK CARD
Selecting the RISK card displays information pertinent to the game type
being played. In UK short games it displays the current player`s mission. In
US short games it displays the headquarters of all the players, highlighting
those occupied by the current player.

                              --- Page 34 ---

                              GAME VARIATIONS

The game variations availabe in the American version of the board game are
available in Computer RISK from the VARIANTS menu. They can be used in any
valid cpombination with ANY game setup.

Low Exchange Rate (valid only when sets of RISK cards increase in value)
reduces the change in value between subsequent sets to One. Selecting this
option a second time returns the exchnage rate to normal. The change comes
into effect after the next set of cards are exchanged.

Supply Lines allows players to make multiple free moves at the end of their
turns.

Army Limit allows the setting of a limit to the number of armies that may be
placed in a singly territory. When first selected, you will be prompted to
enter a value for the army limit (permissable range: 5 to 750). The default
value os 12, this being the recommended value in the board game. Any
territories with more than the permissable army limit are brought into line.
If this option is selected again, then the army limit is cancelled.

If, when allocating reinforcements, the computer finds that there are too
many to place on the map, that player loses an amount of armies such that he
can reinforce his territories only just up to the limit. A message on screen
alerts the player to this fact.

                              --- Page 35 ---

Bonus armies obtained when a player occupies the territory on a RISK card
being exchanged are similarly affected.
Note: When there is no army limit enabled, there is effectivly a limit of
750.

Attack Advantage and Computer Advantage when enabled will prompt the player
whenever an opportunity for using such an advantage arises. The lowest dice
thrown is automatically chosen to be changed. Computer players use the
advantages (when enabled) at their own discretion, informing the human
players of the fact in the message area.

                               OTHER OPTIONS

There are several other options to add to your enjoyment of computer RISK:

Save Game in the FILE menu will save the current state of play to the disk
so that you can resume the game later. You will be prompted for the filename
you wish to use (default:RISKFILE).

Resume Game in the FILE menu allows you resume a previously saved game.
Enter the filename of the game to load in (default RISKFILE) just as you did
when you saved it. All the game settings will be just as they were when the
game was saved.

Extend Game in the PLAY menu allows you to turn a short game into a full
game. You will be prompted to confirm your request in case you selected this
option by accident.

                              --- Page 36 ---

End Game in the PLAY menu allows you to abondon a game without complketing
it. You will be prompted to confirm your request in case you selected this
option by accident.

Change Sides in the OPTIONS manu allow you to change position with any
player. Simply enter the number of the player you want to change with.
Computer players will always let you change with them. Human players will be
prompted for their consent first. Executing this option will automatically
end your turn.

Cheat in the OPTION menu allows you to conquer any territory in the world
simply by selecting it with the compass pointer!

Sound in the OPTIONS menu allows you to turn the sound on or off.

Fast Game in the OPTIONS menu is useful once you become experienced at
playing computer RISK. It switches all of the delays in the messqage display
off and makes several other minor changes to the game to make the action
take place at top speed. A similar effect may be introduced temporarily by
holding down a mouse button - this is particularly useful in speeding
through the computer player`s turns.

Automatic Dice in the OPTIONS menu also speeds the game up. It does this by
removing the prompts to human players for the number of dice they wish to
use and instead using the maximum permissable number automatically.

Change Colours in the OPTIONS menu (CGA, Tandy, Atari ST and Commodore
Amiga only) determines whether the map window is scrolled by the computer
players, or immediately centred on the territories of interest. Switching
map scroll off can speed up the game considerably.

                              --- Page 37 ---

Map Direction in the OPTIONS menu (CGA, Tandy, Atari ST and Amiga only)
reverses the direction in which the map scrolls under control of the mouse,
joystick or keyboard. Experiment to find your own preference.

Shutdown in the FILE menu terminates the session and reboots your computer.
You will be prompted to confirm your request in case you selected this optio
by accident. (This option is Quit on the Macintosh and returns you to the
desktop).

                           COMPUTER PLAY OPTIONS

During the turn of computer players, a connan is displayed instead of the
sword pointer. If you wish you can still pull down menus to access most of
the available options. This enables you to force a computer player to end
their turn, display their cards and so on. However, the menus will not
respond until a computer player has finished the next stage of its strategy,
so be patient.

                              --- Page 38 ---

THE NEUTRAL GAME

Computer RISK supports both the US and UK versions of the Neutral gmae which
you may wish to play even though there are computer opponents available. To
select the Neutral game, start a game with just two players (either computer
and/or human). After entering the name and skill levels you will be asked if
you want a neutral player. You can answer "No" in which case you can play a
two-player game (an addition to the standard RISK rules), however it would
be normal to reply "Yes". All neutral games must begin with random territory
selection - you will be reminded of this if you have set up a game with
manual selection.

In the UK version of the shorter game, each neutral territory starts with 2
armies and is reinforced at the start of each turn with half the enemies
available to the player.

In the US version of the neutral game, each neutral territory starts with
one army and is reinforced at the beginning of the game only.

Being neutral, the neutral player is exempt from the army limit!

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
