                        LEISURE SUIT LARRY III - HINTS

Typed in By SIDEWINDER.  Edited by PARASITE.


PART ONE - LARRY

THE OPENING QUESTION
The five questions at the start of the game decide at what level of
suggestiveness you will play.  This affects some of the wording, degrees of
dress, and, for example, how far the blinds in the bedroom window are
pulled down when you look through the telescope.
Note that any saved game reloaded plays the level of the saved game rather
than the current one.  If you wish to play at the highest level,when all
five questions have been answered correctly save the game immediately, and
use that version to play on from, without worrying about the answers you
give when you next load the programme.
Before the game starts, Larry must do two things.  These are indicated by
the 'Pointing Finger' that appears on the screen.  Larry must visit his
house, and then visit his office.  It would then be a good idea to visit
the comedy hut - and stay for the duration for the show.

CHERRI TART'S SHOW
The ticket number is in the manual.  But a tip is required, and the cash
must be earned - try imitating the beach vendor to earn it.  Hang around
the foyer after the show to meet Cherri.  Afterwards, join in the spirit of
the thing before you get booed of the stage!
The game can be completed with less than 4000 points.  Extra points are
gained for doing things that are not essential to the plot, e.g. drinking
water from the tap by the changing booth, and looking through the
telescope.

THE PARSER
In common with most Sierra games, valid commands are sometimes difficult to
phrase.  But the program is very forgiving, and if you know what you want
to do but cannot phrase it successfully, then USE <object> will often sort
the whole problem out for you.  This even works when you don't know what to
do, but are carrying the correct object for the next problem.  By repeating
USE <object> for every item in your inventory, you will sometimes find the
current problem solves itself.

THE CONQUESTS
These can only be made in a predetermined order.  To be successful, LOOK at
the person in question, and then converse using TALK TO <name> when you
will get a close-up picture.  Follow the general line od the conversation.
Lines like DATE <name> and HELP <name> are useful.  In each case, you won't
something for nothing, and before the conquest can be made, you will have
to provide some form of sweetener requested by your target.
This will usually lead to a search for the required object.  The order of
the conquests is:
1.  Tawni - Found on the beach.
2.  Cherri - Encountered after the show.
3.  Bambi - Found in the aerobics studio.  But try finding Patti first, or
you won't even get to meet her.  One off Patti's numerous requests will
also help with Bambi.
4.  Patti - Playing the piano - but you will have to wait for her show to
start, which depends upon other events.

THE SWEETENERS
Tawni - Visit your house again and see if the postman has been.
Cherri - Visit the lawyers and see Suzi.
Bambi - Try it with Patti first.  You'll make it with Bambi whilest trying
to satisfy Patti's requests, if you offer to help her with her project.
Patti - Visit the lawyer a second time (you will need cash to settle the
first bill) and then try again.  Visit the workout station and score four
nines.  Try again.  Make a garland and give it to her (a 'quick lei'!)  If
already have one and it is not accepted, make a fresh one.  The garland is
made from wild orchids growing in a cave near the Chip 'n' Dale show.
Finally, revisit the Comedy Hut before going up to the Penthouse.

BECOMING A NONTOONYT SOUVENIR SELLER
Cut some long grass with a sharp knife (a hard smooth man-made surface
makes a good knife sharpener).  Make and wear a grass skirt.  Find some
local grenadilla wood and make a carving.  Go down to the beach to sell it.

GETTING FIT
Borrow Suzi's key card, which fall out of the papers she gives you when you
pass them on to Patti.  Her locker is about the furthest away from the
entrance.  A clue to the combination is on the back of the key card - but
you'll need help from the manual to use it.  And don't forget soap and
towel for that shower afterwards!

PART TWO - PATTI

PREPARATIONS FOR THE SEARCH FOR LARRY
Before you leave, make sure you are fully dressed.  When you're low on
resources, even a simple item of clothing like a bra can make the
difference between life and death if you're in a tight spot!
For some relaxation, you will need cash to visit a show.  Now where did you
leave your tips?  An essential though not obvious tool will be found on the
announcement board in your nightspot.  And during that long trek through
the forests, you're bound to get thirsty...
Start the search near the Comedy Hut, and head into the forest.  Heed the
lyrics of the Nectarine Tune, if you're to emerge at the other end.

MOUNTAINEERING
Mountaineering is thirsty work - top up while you have the chance!  Use
something long and stretchy to climb down the cliff.  Whilst by the canyon,
take all the local produce you can.  What is another name for Marijuana?
And it happens to be just what you need right now!  So make it into one,
and use the rock on the other side, and the tree, as an ancchor points.
Before crossing, your dress is going to come in handy - so use it!

AVOIDING A FARE WORSE THAN DEATH FROM A FERAL PIG
What are you carrying that would make effective projectiles?  And can't you
guess just what you're going to have to use as a sling to project them
with?  Position yourself just this side of the bushes on the right hand
side of the path, wait for the right moment, and then swing 'em!

SHOOTING THE RAPIDS AND OUT OF THE CAGE
Move that log you see caught up in the weeds, and climb onto it for a safe
journey.
If you soon feel a bit caged in, don't worry - use you magic marker for an
incredible exit!

AND FINALLY
Just follow through the screens, and if you happen to find yourself hanging
around a bit, hang around upside down near the machine, and turn it off!

End.
