                        WINTER OLYMPIAD ' 88

Typed in by SEWER RAT. Edited by PARASITE.


Upon loading, you will be asked whether to load world records. If
you choose YES, insert you 'RECORDS' disk, follow the prompts to
load the records and finally, replace the Winter Olympiad disk in
the drive. If you choose 'NO', leave the disk in the drive and
continue.

1. You will then be prompted to select the number of players (from 1-6)

2. After doing so, you must enter each player's name, pressing
RETURN after each. Select the countries you wish to represent with
the joystick and fire button. When finished, you will be asked if
the information is correct. Selecting NO will allow you to repeat
the above steps (1 & 2) until the correct information is obtained.
Choosing YES will allow you to continue on to step 3.

3. Selecting the events. When prompted, answer YES if you wish to
compete in all the events, or NO if you wish to compete in
individual events, upon which you will be requested to select the
event(s) you wish to compete in.

The opening ceremonies will then begin and the games will be
declared open.

THE EVENTS :

DOWNHILL
Press the fire button to commence the descent down the steep
alpine run. Left and right on the joystick guides the skier left
and right through the trees. UP accelerates, DOWN decelerates.
Press the FIRE BUTTON to jump.

SKI-JUMP
Press the Fire Button to start the Ski Jumper's descent. On
approaching the end of the run, press the fire button to launch
the skier into the air. Whilst in the air, use the joystick to
correctly land the skier.

Joystick right      - Leans the skier forwards
Joystick left       - Leans the skier backwards
Joystick down       - Crouches the skier and corrects the skis
Joystick up         - Returns the Skier to correct posture.

Points are awarded for distance and style. Style is calculated on
the time the skier has been in the optimum position before a
successful landing.

BIATHLON
Press the Fire Button to start. To propel the skier, move the
joystick left and right in a gentle rhythm to build up his speed.
On reaching the shooting range, take control of the gunsight with
the joystick. Move the sight over each of the five targets and
press the fire button to fire. The weight of gun, plus the
adrenalin pumping around the athlete's body after a hard slog in
the cold makes controlling that sight a little tricky. A five
second penalty is incurred for each target missed.

SLALOM
Press fire button to start. Weave the skier through the gates with
the Red Gates to his right and the Green Gates to his left. To
straighten the skier after a turn, press the fire button. The fire
button is also used to push the skier's sticks for that extra
speed over the finish line. A 5 second penalty is employed for
each gate missed.

BOB SLED
To start the bob on its descent, waggle the joystick quickly left
and right. This starts the driver and Brake Man running down the
track pushing the bob. The fire button will allow them to jump in
or at the end of their allowed run in, they will automatically get
into the bob. The fire button is the brake to slow the bob down
for cornering, making it a safe trip, but probably not a gold.

On completion of your chosen events, a final Medal Table will be
displayed, followed by a Record Table. The Record Table is the
current World Records achieved by the players and may be saved to
disk by answering YES at the Save Record prompt.They may be saved
to a formatted blank disk, NOT on the Winter Olympiad '88 disk.
