                           TEST DRIVE

Typed in by CHUCKLES. Edited by PARASITE.


THE GAME
Your lifelong quest has been to drive one of the world's most
exotic sports cars. Now's your chance. You just made your first
million going public with your software company.

You eagerly drive down to the local dealership. The salesman
smells money and offers to let you take out whatever is in their
lot for a TEST DRIVE.

You look around; suddenly your jaw is down to your knees. You see
five cars. Your heart skips a beat. You loosen your collar and
gasp for some air. "Which one?", you scream to yourself.

SELECTING YOUR TEST DRIVE CAR
Press the fire button to cycle past the title screen. You will
then see the cars and their respective performance
specifications. You can view all five cars by moving the joystick
up/down. Pressing the fire button will select the car you wish to
drive.

DRIVING
You slide in the key. Give it ever so lightly a twist. Vroommm!
The car roars to life. You nervously put it in gear and slowly
let out the clutch. You start out up "The Rock," a long stretch
of mountainess road, ideal to put the car through its paces, for
the ride of your life.

Driving is no simple task. potholes, Sunday drivers and water
slicks will impede your speed or cause you unfortunate mishaps.
Oh,and don't forget about those "Smokies" just waiting for some
show-off like you to pass through their "Radar" trap.

Be cautious, as you will only have five chances to reach the "Top
of the Rock." If you have a mishap, press the fire button to
proceed.

ON THE ROAD
In the upper left portion of the windshield, attached to the sun
visor, you will see a radar detector. It works and you will need
it to avoid that unpleasant feeling of seeing the "red lights"
flashing in your rear view mirror. When you approach a "radar
trap," your trusty radar detector will alert you with  "BEEP"
sounds and flashing red LED's. The point at which all the LED's
are lit is when your speed has actually been clocked by the
Highway Patrol radar gun. If you are unfortunate in this respect,
you must slow down and obey the Highway Patrolman. If you don't,
you might be able to shake him or he will pull in front of you
and force you to stop. Be careful, because if you try to pass
him, you will rear end him. Highway Patrolmen don't appreciate
people damaging their patrol cars much, especially people who
drive "fancy cars." Therefore, you will go directly to jail. DO
NOT PASS GO. Game over, Bud!


CONTROLS
Keyboard
   D                     Toggle display shifter
   M                     Turn on/off music
   S                     Turn on/off sound effects
Cntrl-R                  Restart game
   P                     Pause/continue game
   O                     Optional shift pattern (emulate actual
                         shift pattern with joystick)
Joystick

up (foreward)            Rev/acceleratedown (back)
up/fire button           Shift gears
down/fire button         Downshift
left                     Steer left
right                    Steer right
