 POLICE QUEST

 INTRODUCTION

 The following walkthru should net you 229 points out of a total 245 available.
I would welcome all suggestions for further points, including any differences.
Please refer to the points list.
 There are many times in this game where it may be appropriate to LOOK or
EXAMINE XXX, but I have left them out in the interests of brevity. Make your own
decisions about when you want to do so.
 If you're playing this game on a monochrome monitor, good luck to you. There
are many times when color is important -- when stopping a car, looking at the
traffic lights, etc. The only things I can suggest is to watch the other cars at
the lights, and use trial and error (plus a lot of saves) in order to stop the
proper car.
 A couple of suggestions before I begin. If you're playing POLICE QUEST on an
Atari ST, set up a lot of save folders. Patrolling the streets is a major part
of police work, and in this game, it is VERY dangerous! You will want to save
often. In fact I suggest you do so both before starting and after finishing any
trip in the car. Avoid any area of the streets where you cannot see the exit on
the other side (as it is likely there isn't one), stop at all intersections, and
make your turns as wide as possible. Driving into curbs, through red lights
without your siren (this includes allowing the front of your car to cross --
even a little bit -- the line parallel to the red light), or being hit by some
other reckless driver will end the game. This sort of thing will happen often.
Your tiny game car does not have the maneuverability of your full-sized real
one, and other drivers will go exactly where they want whether you happen to be
in the way or not.
 In addition, whether it would otherwise be so or not, every time you get an
alert box -- either a call from dispatch or a comment from the game -- your car
will keep on going as soon as you press whatever button you're using to exit
from the dialogue box. This can be very dangerous, and I strongly suggest you
simply stop the car, save, and then continue with the proper action. It will
save you a lot of needless highway mayhem and redos, as well as giving you a
good point to restore to when the need arises.
 Also, just driving back and forth in a straight line won't trigger calls from
dispatch telling you what to do next. You must go in a two dimensional direction
(e.g., no U-turns), or nothing will happen. One small help is that you don't
need to worry much about where you park in most places. So long as you're off
the street and the game will let you toggle the map, it's okay. This is a great
help at headquarters and the jail, especially since this is where you will stop
most often.
 In the locker room are two strange things. At first, it looks like the Lytton
Police Department has unisex showers. This is not so. It's just that the
particular officer in question bears a distinct resemblance to a woman. Second,
the first stall will always contain a crumpled uniform, no matter when you go in
there. I did try to investigate this mystery but apparently Sierra didn't
provide for it.
 Finally, you cannot solve the mystery of the "gremlin" who is plaguing Sergeant
Dooley. I called Sierra and asked.
 Common notation in adventure games uses standard compass directions with north
at the top of your monitor, southwest at the bottom left corner, etc. Where
practical, Sierra will always orient your screen in this way. At times this is
impractical, inside various buildings, etc.; however, since you are not using a
real compass, it is easier to ignore this problem. Throughout this walkthru I
have used monitor and compass directions interchangeably. North or up is toward
the top of your monitor, left is west, etc.

 POLICE HEADQUARTERS

 You start in the main hallway of the station. To the west (left side of your
monitor) is the door to Sgt. Dooley's office. To the east (right) is the locker
room (the southern or lower door) and the briefing room. To the northeast (top
right at the back) is the exhibits window, and to the northwest (top left) is
the entrance to the computer room. The first thing to do is go to the locker
room. Your locker is in the far bank at the first set of white buttons. Go to it
and OPEN LOCKER. GET your GUN (revolver), AMMUNITION (ammo), BRIEFCASE, and
HANDCUFFS (cuffs). (You can use GET ALL if you like.) CLOSE the LOCKER, head
back out to the hall, and into the briefing room.
 Walk east (right) to the pigeonholes, stand in front of the second one and LOOK
IN HOLE. You'll see that Steve has a stack of warrants. In the third one (yours)
you'll find a note from Steve suggesting a coffee break at Carol's Caffeine
Castle and saying he'll radio you at the appropriate time. At the back of the
room you'll see something on the table. Go over to it and GET NEWSPAPER. Flip
through it and then close it. (For some odd reason, you keep the paper
throughout the game. Doesn't seem to matter although you'd think it would get
rather soggy in the shower.)
 As soon as you close the paper, the briefing will begin. Walk to the front
table on your right and stand on the left side of it next to the center aisle.
The game will notify you that this is your position. Stand there, wait for the
other officers to arrive, and listen to the briefing when Dooley gives it.
 Afterwards, leave the room and walk across the hall to the board next to
Dooley's door. GET the patrol car KEYS and walk to the table at the end of the
hall. GET EXTENDER and go west (left) down the hall and out the door to the
parking lot. Your patrol car is the one nearest the street, across from your
fancy blue Corvette. Perform your safety inspection as described in the manual,
OPEN the DOOR, toggle yourself in, CLOSE the DOOR, and toggle the map. (A good
place for a save since you're about to drive.)

 HITTING THE STREETS

 Back up a little, turn, and drive into the street keeping close to the curb,
but not TOO close since you don't want to run into the curb. This is a good time
to practice driving and mark off the map that came with your game using the
letters and numbers that show on your screen. Locate all the buildings with
parking areas. You'll find five with "indents," Carol's, The Blue Room, The
Hotel Delphoria, The City Park, and the Courthouse. Two others will have regular
lots, the Police Station where you start and the City Jail across Seventh Street
from the Courthouse. In addition, Cotton Cove has a parking area much like a
parking lot. Generally, you can do this simply by driving around the edges of
the City. Also notice which one is your car. Mine was white with a red (not
black) stripe across it.
 After you've driven around for a while, you'll receive a call to investigate an
accident on Fourth Street near Fig. When you get to the proper screen, the car
will show as a crumpled green thing on the left side of the street. (Your left,
not Sonny's necessarily.) Pull in behind the green car, read the dialogue box,
and toggle the map. OPEN the DOOR, get out, CLOSE the DOOR, walk over to the
open passenger door of the crashed car, and examine the driver twice. Ouch! It
seems he's not only dead, he is a probable murder victim! Notify dispatch and
they'll tell you a homicide unit is on the way.
 Next, go and TALK TO the BYSTANDERS. One young man will tell you a light blue
Cadillac was involved. Talk to him again and you'll get the first part of the
Caddy's license plate number, L964. Call in the vehicle information and fairly
soon Dooley and Homicide Detective Hamilton will arrive. Dooley takes over for
you so get back in your car, toggle the map, and save. Getting out of there is
tricky!
 Continue driving around town and fairly soon Steve will call you for a coffee
break at Carol's. Go there, park in the indent behind Steve's patrol car, toggle
the map, get out, and go inside. Steve will be sitting at a booth on the left.
Sit down and TALK TO STEVE. This won't result in much but, pretty soon, Carol
will come over with your coffee. DRINK COFFEE and shortly the phone will ring.
After she answers it, Carol will inform you that Detective Hamilton is calling
for you. STAND UP, walk to the phone, and ANSWER PHONE. Hamilton will give you
the ID of the dead driver and some other interesting information. Leave Carol's
and go back to driving around. Save, save, save.
 Pretty soon you'll see a red sports car run a light. Put on your siren and
chase the car. This has some rather fun music but is also dangerous so don't
forget to save. When you get behind the car, it will pull over. Stop, toggle the
map, and call in to dispatch. Helen Hots? Well, yes. In more ways than one. OPEN
your BRIEFCASE, GET your ticket BOOK and PEN, get out of the car, and walk over
to the sports car. ASK FOR LICENSE, LOOK at WOMAN and *whooee*!! Well, you're a
professional (it may take a few saves and restores but you will be), so WRITE
TICKET. At this point she'll tell you it was an honest mistake and ask if there
isn't something she can do about it. *Anything* in fact. You can ignore her and
go on writing the ticket, but you'll be missing 2 points so say NO and continue
writing the ticket. RETURN LICENSE, GET SIGNATURE, and GIVE her the TICKET.
Whew! Go back to your car, get in, and toggle the map. As you leave you get the
distinct feeling she doesn't care for you very much.
 Anyway, back to driving around town. Pretty soon you'll be called back to
Carol's on a complaint. Go there as before, but before you get out of the car,
GET NIGHTSTICK. Go inside, walk up to the counter, and TALK TO CAROL. She's a
bit upset, and will tell you about the bikers next door. How exciting. Oh well,
you better go next door to Wino Willy's and have a talk with them anyway. The
first thing you'll notice is they don't care for the police much. When they ask
what you want say MOVE BIKES. They'll ask how you plan to make them do so and
then threaten you. Hit the key to use your nightstick which will make it quite
clear to them what you have in mind. They'll back down in a hurry and clear out.
 When the bikers have left, you'll notice a local "working girl" sitting on a
stool who recognizes you and calls you by name saying she sure is glad you
showed up. TALK TO GIRL and it's Sweet Cheeks Marie. If you look at her you'll
find out why she recognized you. She'll say she just knows you want something
(talk to her again if you looked), so tell her what you want. INFORMATION or
DRUGS will do. She'll tell you quite a lot and you'll give her a tip in return.
 Save again and go back to driving around town. Pretty soon you'll see a pink
(more or less) car driving very erratically and will be alerted. Hit your siren,
chase it, and it will pull over. Toggle the map and call in, then get out and
walk over to the car. Well, he certainly appears to be drunk. Say GET OUT and
back away from the door a bit. (You're in the way.) GET LICENSE and you'll see
that he's a programmer. Definitely a suspicious character! We all know what
they're like! Anyway, ADMINISTER FST and HANDCUFF SUSPECT. He'll ask you to cuff
him in front since he's not feeling too well but say NO. It's correct procedure,
and, besides, he'll get nasty if you do which will, of course, end the game.
READ him his RIGHTS and say GO TO CAR. Walk behind him to the patrol car, open
the back door, back off a bit to let him in, and close the door. Get in behind
the wheel, toggle the map, and take him off to jail at the east corner of
Seventh Street near River Road.
 When you get there, pull into the parking lot, get out, let him out, and follow
him up the stairs to the squared off panel on the left side of the door. When
you get there, OPEN LOCKER, PUT GUN, CLOSE LOCKER, and walk around him to the
button on the right. PUSH BUTTON and the jailer will open the door for you to go
in. Walk to the window and say DRUNK DRIVER. When the jailer tells you to, TAKE
OFF CUFFS and walk your prisoner to his cell. (The door will open when you get
there. It's the one at the back and you will always use the same one.)
 As you walk back to the door, Laura comes in wanting to talk to you. Seems
there's an opening in narcotics which you have a chance at, but you need to
apply for it. When you're finished talking to Laura, the jailer calls you over
and says Sergeant Dooley wants you back at the office on the double. Now you can
actually leave but don't forget to pick up your gun on the way back to the car.
(At some point, you may want to take a look at the guy in the exercise yard just
for fun.)
 Go back to HQ. As you walk in the door there's a table against the wall with
memos and an in basket. Go over to it, WRITE MEMO, and PUT MEMO IN BASKET. Now,
go down the hall to Dooley's office. Dooley will be out in the hall. (He's the
one with the gray hair.) Walk up to the various officers and they'll each tell
you some things about what's going on. Something about a chicken. Walk up to
Dooley's door and he'll ask you to have a look. (You, after all, have an alibi
although no one ever mentions that fact.) OPEN DOOR and go in. There you will
see one of the funnier sights in the game! Walk over to the desk and you'll get
a description. This is one place where, if you have the sound turned off, it's
well worth your while to turn it on. Go up to the desk and EXAMINE CHICKEN for a
more terse but still interesting description of the phenomenon. Unfortunately,
you don't know anything about it and can only leave.
 As you get to the hallway, some of your fellow officers are still standing
there. Walk up to them and they'll invite you to the Blue Room for a surprise
party for Jack. Seems they've hired a dancer. Hmm. Sounds like fun! Go back to
your locker and PUT your UNIFORM in the locker. Everything you don't need will
go in, your towel will come out, and you'll be notified that you must shower.
So, CLOSE LOCKER, walk to the shower stall. (Use the one on the right since
Morris Fudley's used up all the hot water in the other one.) Toggle the shower
on and off, go back to your locker, open it, GET CLOTHES and GET KEYS. Close the
locker and head out to the parking lot, returning the patrol car keys and the
extender on the way. Get in your blue Corvette and head off to the Blue Room on
Ninth, between Fig and Peach.
 When you get there, you'll see your friend Jack sitting alone at a table in the
middle of the room. Walk over, talk to him, and he'll invite you to sit down. Do
so and he'll tell you what a depressing day he's had. It wasn't nice. Pretty
soon another officer comes in and sits down and then a fourth comes in with a
cake. Jack reacts with an embarrassed groan and you all sing "Happy Birthday."
Then comes the dancer! Hoochy-Coochy Hannah in a grass skirt and balloons! She
does quite a dance, and it cheers Jack up a lot. Unfortunately, when Hannah's
done, Keith reminds you about your shift swap and that you're due at the station
in 15 minutes. Back to work!
 Head back, open your locker, PUT CLOTHES, take your shower (regulations
again!), grab your uniform, etc., and head back to the briefing room. Seems
another narcotics dealer is missing. There's a slight difference in paint color
on the cars but he may have been involved in the traffic homicide you earlier
investigated. Dooley also gives you your call numbers, 83-32. This is as good a
time as any to open your briefcase, get out your notebook and WRITE a NOTE to
yourself in it. 83-32 works as well as anything else. Close your briefcase and
read the black board. Oohh!! Nice! Look in your hole and you'll find another
message. Leave the room, get the keys and extender, head out to your patrol car,
inspect it, get in, and toggle the map.
 The next part gives most everyone trouble. Start driving around town looking
for the blue Cadillac. I've been told you can call in if you think you see the
right car but have never tried it. In any case, you'll get a call on your radio
about the car saying it's been seen in the vicinity of Jefferson High. Stop the
car and save. Ignore the part about the school and look around your screen for
what may look like a light green car. (It sure did in my version, even when it
was stopped.) When you decide on which one it is, hit the siren, and start
chasing it. The correct car will try to evade you by turning frequently,
speeding, and so forth, but will eventually pull over. The wrong car will
normally disappear when you change screens. If it takes you some time to stop
him or you aren't using the siren, you may be get the radio call again.
 When you've stopped him and toggled the map, be VERY careful to follow
procedure exactly. First call in and wait for your backup to arrive. You can
look around or whatever but stay in the car. When he arrives, he'll radio
dispatch to hold all radio traffic and say he'll cover you. Wait for him to do
so. When he's in position, open the door, get out, then load and draw your
weapon. Say GET OUT. Your suspect will do so and start walking toward you. Say
HALT. (If you get nervous and have difficulty doing things fast enough, slow
down the action. This is very precise.) Say HANDS UP and then LIE DOWN. When
he's done so, walk towards him with your gun drawn. Your backup will say he has
him covered and to go ahead and cuff him. Walk to where his hands will be cuffed
and holster your gun. CUFF SUSPECT, SEARCH PRISONER, and READ RIGHTS. You don't
want to take any chances with this creep!
 Say GET UP and GET IN CAR. (Don't forget to open the door and get out of the
way.) Close the door. Your backup will call in so go SEARCH the CAR. OPEN BOX
and you'll find a black notebook and two driver's licenses. Examine the notebook
and you begin to get an even better idea of what a creep this guy is! Not only
do you see bribes, gambling, hard drugs, etc., you notice some initials with
"terminate" in front of them. Those are the initials of the two drug dealers
who've been murdered recently. Put the book back and EXAMINE LICENSES. Great!
Just what you need! Multiple IDs. Your backup will take care of this stuff so
put it back, close the box, and go around to the back of the car. OPEN TRUNK and
you'll find samples of both coke and marijuana! Close the trunk, get in the
patrol car, and transport the suspect to jail.
 Go inside as before and don't forget to put your gun in the locker. Book him
for FELONY, take off the cuffs, and see him to his cell. What a sweetheart!
Yuck!! As you're leaving, Jack walks in, congratulates you, and says Dooley
wants to see you.
 Grab your gun, go back to HQ, and into Dooley's office. (Where the chicken was,
remember?) Walk over to the desk and Dooley's eyes will start to water as he
attempts to reads a memo to you. The gremlin has struck again! Dooley runs from
the office cursing. Seems the memo has been sprayed with mace. Well, you sure
want to know what it says, but obviously, getting the memo is a poor idea.
Instead, walk around the desk to where Dooley was and READ MEMO from a standing
position. You've been transferred to narcotics! Head off to the locker room for
a change of clothes and the obligatory shower. Get your clothes and the rest of
your stuff, including your weapon, and take off for Narcotics, dropping off the
patrol car keys but keeping the extender.
 When you get there Laura will tell you the Lieutenant is waiting, so go next
door to his office and walk up to the desk. Seems you'll be working with Laura
on the Hoffman case. Go back to narcotics and talk to Laura. She'll show you
around the office and give you your radio call number. When she's done, she'll
tell you Hoffman's about to be bailed out for a mere $500,000! (Actually,
strange as it may sound, this is way too low for a major drug dealer. The stakes
are so high they just write it off as a cost of doing business. You NEED that no
bail warrant!)
 Go to the cabinet, OPEN the DRAWER, and GET out the HOFFMAN file. Read through
it and GET FILE. Move to the clipboard and get it. Flip through until you get to
the FBI list on Jason Taselli who: a) is known to use the last name of
"Hoffman," b) also has a tattoo above his left nipple, and c) is wanted for
murder. GET the LIST and PUT the CLIPBOARD back. While you're here, get the keys
to the undercover car. Now, head for the computer room.
 As you are leaving the room, Laura comes in to say Hoffman's attorney is on his
way over to the jail right now with the $500,000 to bail him out! Hurry on into
the computer room, TURN ON COMPUTER, and enter the search string of TASELLI,
read the information. Yahoo! You've got it! Now you'd best hustle on over to the
courthouse and convince Judge Palmer to issue the warrant. EXIT the computer and
head straight out to the white undercover car in the parking lot. Inspect it and
go.
 When you get into the courthouse (use the right door), walk over to the window
because court is in session and the judge will hold you in contempt if you just
barge on in unannounced. Say EMERGENCY to the guy behind the window, and he'll
send a message in with the bailiff. Wait for permission to enter and go into the
courtroom. (Yes, just stand there.) When the judge tells you to, walk toward the
bench. She'll ask you who or what the warrant is for, so say HOFFMAN. When she
asks for information, SHOW FILE. She'll ask if you have any other informationm
so SHOW POSTER and the bailiff will take the evidence to her. When she asks why
you think Hoffman and Taselli are the same person, say TATTOO. As you do so,
everyone in the courtroom will laugh while the judge agrees with you and makes a
comment of her own. She gives you the warrant and you take off in a hurry.
 Oddly, despite the fact that it's right across the street, you must drive to
the jail so don't forget to save. When you arrive GIVE the WARRANT to the
jailer. You can't do anything so just wait. Whew! Just in time!! When you're
done, go back to HQ.
 When you arrive, Laura is waiting for you and heads straight for your car.
There's a drug deal about to go down in the park and the Lieutenant wants the
two of you to stake it out. (You do have your gun and extender don't you?) Head
on over to the park and stop the car. Get out and head up the stairs into the
park. Walk to the back and take cover. You can use either side but the left is
easier as there's more space. On the right, any slight movement will blow your
cover and end the game. Move around a bit until the game notifies you that
you're out of sight, radio Laura, and maintain silence until it's time to move
in.
 Load your weapon. Be very careful if you're using the Function or alternate
keys to draw your gun. Generally the game depends on graphics to indicate a
drawn weapon and, at least in my version, it will not verbally notify you that
you have done so. Since it's a toggle key, if you get an alert box and miss or
forget and try it again, you'll lose the game because your gun will be
holstered. Following procedure here is of the utmost importance!
 This section is a realistic "feast and famine" police situation. You wait for
what seems like ages for something to happen, and then everything starts
happening at once. In any case, wait for the buyer and dealer to show up which
they will do one at a time, the buyer first. Continue waiting until the money
and drugs have changed hands. Notify Laura, and staying right where you are, say
HALT or POLICE! The dealer will run so notify Laura about him, but the buyer
will give up immediately.
 Walk over to him, toggle your gun back into the holster (Do NOT use "put gun"
or you're in trouble!), and cuff him. Read him his rights, say COME WITH ME, and
lead him back to the car. When you get there Laura will have the other suspect
in custody so lead yours around to the other side of the car. Search them and
talk to Simms (the buyer) twice. The second time he'll tell you he's now buying
from Colby, meaning the dealer. TALK TO COLBY twice and he'll tell you his
source and the phone number he calls. When everyone's in the car, toggle the
map, radio in, and take your suspects off to jail.
 Laura's rather bossy so do what she tells you and then book them for DRUGS.
After you're finished, head on back to HQ. When you get there Laura will suggest
you go to the Blue Room to tell Jack you've nailed the creep who was dealing at
Jefferson High where his daughter goes to school. Do so and you'll find Jack
there, quite drunk. You talk to him in an attempt to cheer him up, but he tells
you it may be too late for Kathy, who has already OD'd and is comatose in
intensive care. That's not enough: After the cabby has come for Jack, Keith
comes in to say Taselli has escaped and Morgan wants to see you right away!
 Morgan will tell you to get Taselli's black book from the evidence room and
check it out. Go down the hall and say BLACK BOOK to the guard. Look through it,
return it, go back to your office, and look in your basket. Read the note from
Laura, leave the office, go back in, and Laura will be there. She'll tell you
that Sweet Cheeks is in jail asking to see you but to talk to Morgan first. Do
so and he will tell you that Sweet Cheeks may be able to help you. They've
discovered the drug problem is coming from the Hotel Delphoria and that Sweet
Cheeks may be helpful in establishing your cover at the hotel. He'll call the
jail while you go there to enlist her help.
 When you get to the jail, move over to stand in front of Sweet Cheeks Marie.
After she shows her gratitude in her own way, she'll offer to do anything if you
get her out of jail, and you'll be confronted with what is probably the worst
parsing problem in any Sierra game. Use two words here. The proper form is HELP
OPERATION or HELP HOTEL. Either one will do and will trigger a longish sequence
in which you explain, she agrees to help, and you walk out with lipstick on your
face.
 Get in the car and head back towards HQ. Before you get there you'll get a call
to go to Cotton Cove to identify a 1S7 victim. Go there and walk up to the
officer who comes toward you. Move to the victim, MOVE BLANKET, and LOOK AT
NIPPLE which will confirm your ID as well as the current whereabouts of Jason
Taselli. Call in the information.
 Go back to HQ and into Morgan's office where he, Laura, and Marie are waiting
for you. Listen to Morgan's plan and remember what he says. (Remember Woody
Roberts from Taselli's black book?) When the briefing is over, Dooley comes in
to tell you that Jack Cobb's daughter has just died and that he's on extended
family leave. You vow revenge for this senseless death! Go back to the locker
room putting your extender back on the way. (It makes an unsightly bulge in your
new white suit.)
 Open your locker, PUT ALL, PUT SUIT, CLOSE LOCKER, and head for the shower.
Turn on the shower, BLEACH HAIR, and RINSE HAIR. Turn off the shower, go back to
the locker, and GET SUIT. Close the locker and head back to Morgan's office in
your new "pimp look." Morgan gives you your instructions, $1,000 in marked
bills, and after a phone conversation, further information on Taselli's death.
Be careful! When Morgan has finished, ASK FOR PHONE NUMBER, and he'll give it to
you. Head for the white Cadillac, inspect it, and go to the hotel.
 Be very careful driving into the hotel. In fact, I suggest you save before you
park. The indent here is a driveway rather than a plain cut. Since you must park
parallel to the street, it can be very difficult. You may want to use slow mode
and use the keyboard keys for maneuvering the diagonal. Fortunately, this is the
last time you will need to use the car.
 When you're inside the hotel, walk up to the desk, and RING the BELL. Tell the
desk clerk you want to REGISTER and PAY CLERK. Walk northwest to the door, into
the Lounge, and over to the bar. Order WHISKEY or something and Marie will
"recognize" you. You'll sit down at a table and the bartender will bring your
drink. PAY BARTENDER, he'll get your change, and a couple of guys will come in,
stop briefly at the bar, and head through the door at the left. Marie comments
that they aren't the first as the bartender comes over with your change and asks
to be introduced to you. Marie does so and takes off for the powder room. You
chat with the bartender, establishing your cover, but when Marie returns nothing
has happened so you drop some hints. Still nothing. So, when the bartender goes
back behind the bar, go over to the bar to talk to him. When he comes up, SHOW
MONEY. It works! Time to head off to your room.
 Go back out the door and into the elevator. PRESS TWO and go east to the end of
the hall when you get there. UNLOCK THE DOOR, walk to the other side of the bed,
USE PHONE, and type in 555-6674. When Morgan answers say WHITEY. He'll tell you
to send Sweet Cheeks to HQ in a cab, to try to get behind the scenes in the
hotel, and that your backup personnel will arrive later this evening. Use the
phone again, and since you don't know the number, dial 411 for information. Say
TAXI, call the number you're given, tell them to come to the HOTEL DELPHORIA,
and tell Marie to take the cab to the station. Go back to the elevator, PRESS
ONE, and head back to the bar. Show Woody the money and follow him into the back
room. When you get inside, walk up to the partially filled table and SIT DOWN.
Save here.
 There's one more player to arrive so wait for him. When the game starts, follow
the directions on your reference card. To avoid losing all the department's
money and an endless game, save every time you win a bit of money. One or two
slots are plenty as you can keep saving on top of the last. I found it helpful
to make a note of how much money I had, changing it each time, and restored
every time I lost a hand.
 When you've won a substantial amount of money, the game will end, you'll be
invited to come back later for the big game, and given a password. Head back to
your room and use the toilet if you like. In any case, your backups will arrive
shortly. Walk up to the one standing by himself on the left and ASK FOR
TRANSMITTER. He'll give it to you with a new supply of marked bills. Go back
down and say FRANK SENT ME to Woody. He'll take you back, knock, frisk you
again, and escort you in. Save.
 Sit down and you realize just who "Frank" is! Yikes! This is IT!! Keep saving
and winning. When you've won enough, Frank will suggest a discussion about a
job. Say YES and he'll invite you to his room for a drink and a discussion about
it. Say YES again and follow him up to his room the back way. Be careful on the
stairs, they can be tricky. When you're in the stairwell, notify your backups
using the standard radio method, and be very careful not to exit at the
beginning of the stairs (at the bottom of the screen) or at any other exit. You
may want to use the keyboard to climb the stairs if you aren't already. They're
on a direct diagonal. The final flight is especially tricky but all you need to
do is get started up it and the screen will change to the top. Follow Frank out
the door and down the hall to his room. When he goes inside, make sure you
notify your backups of the room number.
 Enter the room and "Frank" will get a phone call. Uh-oh! When he comes back, it
seems you've been recognized!! Fortunately, you remembered to call your backups,
and they come charging in the room just in time! A bit of "deadly force" takes
care of Bains for a very long time.
 Now it's your turn to sit back and watch. Keep pressing Return and enjoy your
victory, at least for now. By all means don't get impatient or you'll miss the
convictions, your parade, presentation, and, of course, Marie's offering
(although I never did figure out whether she ever stops).

  		>> Imported to Denmark by ARCANE <<
