                                TECHNO COP
                               Game  Manual
                               ------------

CONTENTS

Throttle That Thing! ................................ 1

Getting Started ..................................... 2
   Leading Instructions ............................. 2
   Other Game Controls .............................. 4
   Joystick and Keyboard Moves ...................... 6

Rev It Up! .......................................... 6
   VMAX Console ..................................... 7
   Driving the VMAX ................................. 8
   On the Road ...................................... 9
   VMAX Weaponry .................................... 9
   Crime in Progress! ............................... 10

Tracking and Terminating Thugs ...................... 10
   Wrist Command Console ............................ 10
   Technocop Self-Defense ........................... 12

Fatal Interactions .................................. 13
   Other Dangers .................................... 14

Survival Strategies ................................. 14

Performance Assessment .............................. 15

Scoring ............................................. 16




THROTTLE THAT THUG!

   You're a cop, but not the kind that buttons up big and blue with a soft
walk and a big stick. It's years in the future and you're a Technocop, a
member of the Enforcers -- the most elite crime-fighting force in the world.
Your task is to capture or eradicate a ruthless mob of creeps, hit men, and
criminals called DOA -- that's short for Death On Arrival.

   To clobber DOA thugs, you're equipped with the best crime-stopping
weaponry that 21st century technology has to offer; a high-powered criminal
radar locator that any DOA punk would just die to get hold of, an .88 magnum
pistol to stop 'em cold, and a net gun to bag 'em-up.

   And check out your car! Not just any souped up cruiser's good enough for a
Technocop. You're about to take the wheel of the Enforcers' newest, high-
speed pursuit-and-destroy vehicle: the VMAX Twin-Turbo Interceptor.
Handcrafted in Italy, the VMAX can rev to speeds over 150 mph and packs a
powerful, side-mounted can, among other surprises.

   Belted into your VMAX, you'll speed down tread-wrenching highways,
keeping your eye on the crime computer in your control panel for up-to-
the-second info on crimes in progress and mug shots of perps.

   Race to a series of 11 tenement buildings to search out unscrupulous
DOA kingpins. The radar in your computer wrist console helps you pick
your way through dilapidated hallways to home in on the big thug chiefs.

   While scouting out the buildings, you'll have to deal with roving DOA
hit men who will stop at nothing to protect their bosses. These goons come
after you with every illegal weapon in the book, so be ready. You're tough
enough to withstand four fatal hits, but when you lose your fifth life,
you're out of the game. Remember the golden rule of crimefighting: Eliminate
all thugs before they eliminate you.

   Ready to ride? Good. But be careful -- once you rev up the VMAX, you need
to keep your wits about you to search out and subdue these DOA slimeballs.
Otherwise, it's sayonara, Technocop...

                                 -1-



GETTING STARTED

Loading Instructions

   To load Technocop, find the information for your system in this section
and follow the steps. And for all systems, use the Epyx 500XJ joystick for
precise, instant control. The 500XJ is the only joystick that actually fits
your hand and puts the fire button right at your trigger finger.

      || Note: Do not write-protect your disk.

                                 -2-



Commodore-Amiga

1. Set up your system and plug a joystick into port 2.

2. For the Amiga 500 and 2000, insert the Technocop disk into the drive and
   turn on your system. The program loads and the title screen appears.

   For the Amiga 1000 with external memory, detach the external memory.
   Insert a disk containing Kickstart version 1.2 into the drive and turn on
   your system. When asked to insert the Workbench disk, insert the
   Technocop disk instead. The program automatically loads.

3. Press the fire button to start the game.

                                 -3-



OTHER GAME CONTROLS

Commodore-Amiga

Turn sound on/off.            Press A.
Pause a game.                 Press P. Press it again to resume play.
Save a game.                  Press D during the driving sequence and select
                              the Save option.
Resume a saved game.          Press D during the driving sequence and select
                              the option to load a saved game.
Start a new game.             At the title screen, press the fire button.
End a session.                Turn off your system.

                                 -4-



JOYSTICK MOVES

   Technocop works with joystick commands for all versions.

                          Joystick

                           \ | /
                          --   --
                           / | \

                         Fire Button

   || Note: If you are using a two button joystick, use the top fire button.

REV IT UP!

   Although the VMAX drives like a dream, you may need some pointers on your
first time out. After all, this ain't no Sunday cruise.

                                 -6-


VMAX CONSOLE

   The illustration shows the VMAX console.

       NOTE: (To view this Illustration load the file PIC1.IFF)

Tachometer Shows current rpm's as you drive.

Speedometer Feel those G-forces at top speeds of over 150 mph!

Score Status Shows total points accumulated.

Gear Indicator Indicates which of five automatic-shift gears you are in.
After a crash, you automatically shift back to first gear.

Crime Computer Shows the time you have left to get to the crime scene
and gives background information on criminals. The message also tells you
whether to eliminate the criminal or bring him back alive.

Percent Operative Indicator Indicates the level of damage your VMAX has
sustained so far. If the indicator reaches 0, your VMAX is damaged beyond
repair and the game is over.

                                 -7-



DRIVING THE VMAX

Joystick

Accelerate.                Push handle up. Hold handle up to continue
                           accelerating.
Slow down.                 Pull handle down. Hold handle down to continue
                           slowing down.
Steer left.                Move handle left.
Steer right.               Move handle right.
Fire weapon.               Press fire button.
Accelerate and             Push handle to upper left or upper right.
steer left or right.       
Slow down and              Pull handle to lower left or lower right.
steer left or right.      

                                 -8-



ON THE ROAD

   Keep just two things in mind as you tear down the highway: you're in a
race against time, and everyone else on the road is your enemy. Here's some
tips:

  o DOA vehicles will sneak up from all directions to ram or block you. Use
    your cannon to blast them to bits, or if you're an ace driver, slam them
    off the road. Both techniques gain you points. (See Scoring.)

  o After several missions, be on the lookout for a DOA highway superpunk,
    who jumps from a truck, plasters himself to the top of the VMAX, and
    tries to bash in the engine. Loosen his grisp with a few good swerves.

  o Stay in control! Sudden curves in the road may send you spinning into
    trees and road signs. Crashes damage your VMAX and slow you down,
    decreasing your chances of getting to the crime scene on time.

VMAX WEAPONRY

   You start with a side-mounted machine gun on your VMAX, and upgrade your
weaponry as you complete the driving portion of your missions on time. On-
screen messages notify you when you're awarded weapons improvements. The
following arsenal awaits your eventual command:

Machine Gun Use this to blast anything on the road out of your way.

Turbo Charger Gives you a burst of power for faster acceleration.

Hydraulic Wheel Rams Use these powerful wheel rams to bash and bump DOA
drivers off the road.

Rapid Fire Cannon Blast away even the stubbornest of road thugs with this
cannon's armor-piercing rockets.

Nuclear Bombs Clear the road! Use the nukes to simultaneously annihilate
all other vehicles. Press spacebar to fire. Amiga version has five bombs
per mission.)

                                 -9-


CRIME IN PROGRESS

   Follow these steps to race to the crime scene:

1. While you're on the road, scan the messages from your crime computer
   to see the time remaining to reach the scene of the crime.

2. A beeping sound alerts you to a message on your crime computer indicating
   the police code and location of the crime in progress. Subsequent
   messages show you a mug shot of the criminal and direct you to either
   capture or eliminate him.

3. The crime computer tells you when you fail to make it to the scene of the
   crime within the alloted amount of time. If this happens, you forfeit
   your chance for a promotion or a VMAX weapons upgrade. But you can still
   pursue the criminal. Proceed to the crime scene.

4. When you reach the crime scene, your VMAX automatically pulls off the
   road and you step out of the car.

TRACKING AND TERMINATING THUGS

  Once out of your VMAX, walk right to head for the building and start
pursuing the criminal. Rely on your wrist command console for instructions
for blowing away DOA thugs, recovering stolen goods, and capturing or wiping
out criminals. Check your console to keep track of the criminal's position
as you move around the building and the amount of time remaining to carry
out your mission.

WRIST COMMAND CONSOLE

   The illustration on the next page shows the wrist command console.
Note: (To view this Illustration load the file PIC2.IFF)

                                 -10-


Crime Computer Gives vital statistics on the criminal, plus a mug shot.

Life Counter Brightly-lit buttons indicate how many of your five lives you
have left to live.

Health Indicator Shows how DOA attacks affect you. The bar retreats from
right to left as you weaken.

Radar Points you toward the criminal's location in the building, relative to
your position. After you capture or terminate the criminal, it guides you to
the exit. Move in the direction of the lighted indicator bar.

Crime Clock Displays the time you have left to complete a mission.

Strength Indicator Shows energy expenditure during strength intensive moves.
Each time you jump, the needle drops, then floats to the right to indicate
your recovery.

Score Status Indicates your current score. (See Scoring.)

Gun/Net Indicator Shows whether you're set to blast the criminal with your
.88 magnum or capture him alive with your net gun. Press Spacebar to toggle
between the two. You have an unlimited number of nets per mission.

                                 -11-



TECHNOCOP SELF-DEFENSE

Joystick

Shoot gun or net.      Press fire button.
Walk to the left.      Move handle left.
Walk to the right.     Move handle right.
Jump left.             Push handle to upper left.
Jump right.            Push handle to upper right.
Crouch.                Push handle down.
Crouch left.           Push handle to lower left.
Crouch right.          Push handle to lower right.
Stand up.              Push handle up.
Enter elevator.        Stand in front of elevator, push handle up.

                                 -12-



Elevator Controls

   Once you're inside the elevator, quickly move the joystick handle up or
down to move the elevator to the floor you want. Hold down the fire button
to stop the elevator, then release the button to open the elevator door and
exit.

Other Tips

   To recover stolen property, stand near the goods, then stand up. When the
stolen object disappears from view, it's in your possession.

   If you run out of time and fail to find the criminal, an on-screen
bulletin orders you to return to the VMAX and get back on the road to begin
your next assignment. If you're an excellent crime fighter and complete your
mission in time, you can continue to score by blowing away minor criminals.
But that's risky. The best idea is to get out -- while you're still alive.

   You cannot leave the building until you either deal with the head thug,
he escapes, or you run out of time.

FATAL INTERACTIONS

   If you run out of lives, the game is over. Don't squander your five lives
on thoughtless mistakes! Instantly fatal experiences include:

DOA Head Thug Attack A clanging sound confirms your crime computer's message
that you're closing in on this building's big thug. Each of these criminal
kingpins has a uniquely diabolical way of welcoming you, and just because
he's big doesn't mean he can't move fast. Watch out!

Floor Holes Some holes plunge you more than one level, so to be on the safe
side, jump over all holes until you know which ones are fatal.

                                 -13-


Other Dangers

   Other less-than-fatal but still nasty experiences await you:

Thug Attack at Close Range If a thing gets in your face, crouch and shoot to
duck the attack while returning fire.

Explosive Devices DOA goons want to see you dance! Jump bombs fast or feel
the blast.

Vicious Rats As big and mean as hungry dogs! Jump over these beasts the
moment they come into view, or you suffer a nasty bite that slows your
search.

SURVIVAL STRATEGIES

   While you're on the road, don't save your top speeds for the straight-
aways. Accelerate through curves by pushing up diagonally on your joystick
handle.

   Once you leave the VMAX, you don't have much time to find the criminal.
Try these shortcuts:

 o Every so often, jump over DOA thugs instead of firing at them. But don't
   jump too many times in a row, because it tires you out and can show your
   reaction time when you need to move fast to defend yourself.

 o For the tougher missions, memorize or map out the locations of elevators
   and walls to avoid costly delays in trying to locate the criminal.

 o Search for stolen property or kidnapped victims only after you have
   found the criminal.

 o If you've determined it's safe, drop through a hole in the floor to the
   level below to get there faster than the elevator can take you.

                                 -14-



   When choosing between Gun and Net, select Gun initially, even if your
mission is to capture the criminal alive. You can shoot your gun faster than
the net and defend yourself better against attacking DOA hit men. When you
approach the suspect, you can switch to Net to make the capture. You can
shoot your net only from a standing position.

   When you're riding an elevator, keep an eye on your radar. When the
bar stops in the middle section of the radar grid, step the elevator and
exit. And remember, although the radar shows you which direction to go to
find the head thug or exit the building, you still need to figure out the
most direct route. Once you find the head thug, don't let him get away! The
moment you see him, open fire or shoot your net.

   As you proceed through the series of buildings, the thugs get tougher.
Because they take longer to destroy, they have more time to get you. It may
be faster to stop a single thug with your net than with your gun. When
several thugs attack at once, crouch and then shoot your gun. If the action
gets too hectic, hide in an elevator to collect your thoughts and plan your
strategy.

PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT

   If you get to the crime scene and capture or eliminate the criminal
within the alloted time, you gain a life, receive a promotion, and score
points. Promotions follow this progression:

1. Grunt (lowest rank)       7. Sergeant
2. Rookie                    8. Enforcer
3. Flat Foot                 9. Commander
4. Patrol Man               10. Top Cop
5. Cop                      11. Chief
6. Officer                  12. Technocop (highest rank)

   After assessment of your performance, walk toward the exit and the VMAX,
DOA thugs are still on the rampage, so be careful! Once in the VMAX, you
automatically pull back onto the highway. Rev up the engine and accelerate
into your next assignment.

                                 -15-


SCORING

   You are awarded for obliterating other vehicles, terminating DOA thugs,
and completing phases of your mission. You are penalized for other actions,
such as harming innocent bystanders. A summary of awards and penalties
follows:

Situation                              Awards

Timely arrival at a criminal scene.    50,000 points

Blowing up a vehicle or forcing it     500 points per motorcycle
off the highway.                       1,000 points per car
                                       2,000 points per truck

Recovering stolen goods or a           1,000 points
kidnapped victim.

Destroying a minor thug within         500 points
allocated time.

Harming an innocent bystander.         minus 5,000 points

Correctly dealing with the head        50,000 points plus a bonus life
thug within allocated time.

Incorrectly dealing with the head      25,000 points
thug but still within allocated time.

Timely arrival at crime scene, and     Promotion
correctly dealing with head thug
within allocated time.

Reaching all 11 buildings on time.     100,000 points

   To save your score, type your initials at the scoring table screen and
press Return.



...........Doc provided by THE HELLION  &  THE CORSAIR............

                            TNG / WOW

                       Special Greetings to :
 
                          QUARTEX and ESI
























