


 Documents for SKIDMARKS from ACID SOFTWARE! Cracked By FAIRLIGHT!


 Precautions

 1. If you are playing for a long period of time change control methods
 to avoid repetitive strain injury. Also drive in pairs, allowing one driver
 to sleep while the other races.

 2. The disks are incredibly sensitive. Do not place in microwave oven or
 shower them. Unlike the Amiga Format cover disk the disks included in this
 package will not fit in your ear.

 3. Surgeon Generals Warning: DO not make copies of the track disks for your
 friends or attempt to crack the protection system. Having your finger nails
 removed with a large pair of pliers may affect your ability to play
 SkidMarks.

 4. Not registering your copy of SkidMarks will mean you wont receive
 upgrades to your game including more trackdisks, more cars and fixes to
 the software.

 What You Get

 The SkidMarks package includes this manual and three disks. The main
 program disk should be backed up on floppy or installed on the hard drive.
 Use any copy program to make a backup of the floppy of from WorkBench,
 simply drag the SkidMarks disk into an empty drawer on youy HardDisk.

 As configuration files are saved on the program disk, also ensure the disk
is not write protected.

 The track disks are copy protected and in no situation should copying these
 disks be attempted. Not only is this illegal but it will affect our sales,
 sales which will allow us to develop the game and others for your enjoyment.
 Large corporate money bags we are not, smalltime hardworking computer
 programmers we are. Please, do not pirate SkidMarks.

 Either we continue working on more enhancements for the Amiga version
including a track editor, car designer and super AGA version or we spend our
time converting it to Japanese consoles, the choice is yours.

 Getting Started

 To run SkidMarks place the program disk in the Amigas floppy drive and
 power up. Double click on the SkidMarks disk and the double click on the
 SkidMarks icon.

 The main menu allows you to select the number of players, control methods
 and of course start the game. If you are plaing one player modem with
 joystick control simply select START by pressing the joystick button or hit
 the RETURN key on the keyboard.

 Options

 Once SkidMarks has loaded you can choose to start a 1 or 2 player game,
 change your options or exit back to Workbench. Use the joystick or the
 Up/Down/Return keys to select.

 If you are playing SkidMarks bewteen two computers select 1 or 2 players
 depending how many players are playing on your computer, the computer will
 then wait for the computer to select 1 or 2 player mode. This way you can
 have 2,3 or 4 player linked play.

 From the options screen you can choose from the following:

 Select Car: after loading the select car screen you can then use fire to
 change the type of car and left/right to change colour. The number of
 different cars you can have will depend on the amount of memory in your
 computer and whether you are using the enhanced AGA cars. Select OK to
 return to the main Options screen.

 Computer Team: there are four different computer teams to race against each
 with their own characteristics.

 Difficulty: Noice, Rooky and Pro will determine how fast SkidMarks will
 play and hence the reaction times required to master the tracks.

 Game mode: the three modes of play in SkidMarks are Practice, MatchRace and
 Championship. Practise lest the individula player race the tracks without
 competition (alone). MatcRace is for competing in one off racers on any
 track while Championship ;ets the player participate in a 6 track series
 competing for points.

 START!

 After the game has loaded the cars it will ask you to insert a track disk.
 SkidMarks comes with two track disks, more will be available shortly. From
 the track disk the options screen will be loaded.

 If PRACTICE or MATCHRACE was selected from the main screen you will be able
 to select from any of the 6 tracks. When in CHAMPIONSHIP mode tracks must be
 raced in order.

 Once you have selected a track the game will take a few seconds to load and
 then its race time.

 Linking two Machines.

 Using either a standard null modem cables between two Amigas (two male DB25
 connectors with pins 2 and 3 crossed and pin 7 joined (up to 60 feet)) or
 via modem, SkidMarks can be played on two machines at once.

 See the README file on the Program disk for details on connecting with the
 SkidSerial option.

 Using SkidSerial up to 6 players can participate. While four drivers race
 (two on each machine) two others can act as managers via the chat-libe
 raising stakes, developing strategy...

 The true purpose of the chatline is however for sending abuse and
 profanities to opposing players, a macro key system is provided for off the
 cuff commentary.

 HINTS AND TIPS

 General:
 Spend some time learning each track. Knowing the corners and finding the
 best approach to jumps is the best way to achieive good lap times.
 There are two strategies for good cornering. Either hug the inside of the
 corner at all times or use the banking on the outside of the corner to
 increase speed.
 When taking jumps ensure you are not turning. Also attemp to approach the
 jump so that when you land you are ready for the next corner.

 If others are attempting to pass:
 Try and get them to ram you by blocking their way, such collisions will
 increase your own speed.
 Keep on the side of the conrer and attempt ro push your opposition into the
 outside barrier.
 Accidently spill your drink in their lap.
 If playing by modem hit them with a disconcerting message via the macro keys
 to destroy their concentration. It usually pays to make all your keyboard
 macros disconcerting to avoid mistaken pleasantries.

 If you are losing badly:
 Concentrate on you own driving and learning the track rather than losing
 you cool.
 If playing locally use verbal obscenities to offput your opposition and
 perhaps spill more beer/fanta in their lap.
 If all else fails, stop, turn around and speed head on into the opposing
 traffic, always a good option if you are certain or being lapped.

 BTW: Fairlight Rulez.


