TABLE OF CONTENTS 


WHAT IS QU HST FOR G LORY? 2 

CREATING A CHARACTER 4 

THE FIGHTER 5 

THE MAG 1C USER .5 

THETHIEF 5 

ASSIGNING SKTU. POINTS 6 

ABILITIES 6 

SKILLS 7 

PLAYING A ROLE 9 

THE SPECIAL ACTION ICON BAR 10 

LIVING IN THIS CRAZY WORLD 11 

WINNING THE GAME 12 

TALKI NG TO OTHER CHAR/\CTERS 12 

COMBAT 13 

THIEF SKILLS .--16 

USING MAGIC: THE MAGIC ICON BAR 16 

PLAYING THE WIZARD'S GAALE 18 

QUEST FOR GLORY WALK-TH ROUGH 20 

CREDITS 22 



WHAT IS QUEST FOR GLORY? 


Quest for Glon- combines the character development and 
combat that are typical of fantasy role-playing games with the 
basic adventure game concept of exploring a world and solving its 
puzzles. "So You Want To Be A liero..." is the first Quest for (Slory 
scenario. 

The essence of role-playing is that you must try to tliink as 
your character would, w'hen faced with a dilemma. In Quest foi’ 
Glory I, you can choose from three basic character types — the 
strong fighter, the mysterious magician, or the wily thief. Each 
has the same goal; to be named Hero of Spielburg. Each 
character will, however, set about accomplishing that goal in a 
different way. The magician may use spells to overcome some 
obstacles, but might not survive a pitched battle with a monster. 
The thief must find a crafty way around a problem that the fighter 
or magic user would approach directly. 

Experience can be a tremendous asset to you as a hero. 
Your attributes will improve as you play ilie game. Ticsks that are 
beyond your ability early on may become less difficult as your 
skills improve. 

Conversation is one very important pan of Quest for Glory, 
You will meet many strange people and creatures in the Valley. To 
learn about the valley and your quest, it will he necessary' to speak 
with everyone you meet. Like your character, the beings you meet 
will have distinct personalities, and their skill and knowledge may 
lie in different a^e^Ls. You'll want to find out all you can. 

Every hero must deal witli his share of foul and ferocious 
monsters. If you want to he a hero, you’ll have to fight or avoid 
them, :ls they don't tend to favor discussion. Eacli battle you fight 

2 



will provide you with valuable 
experience, and many victories will 
yield treasure that you will need to 
buy food and equipment. 

A hero's life isn’t always 
serious, though. Between 
desperate encounters with terrible 
monsters and life and death 
decisions lie many light-hearted, 
humorous, and downright silly 
moments, Spielburg is a strange 
place with a multi-faceted 
personality, as you will 
soon see. 



CREATING A CHARACTER 


Before beginning your adventure, yoit’fl choose from three 
basic chamcter types; The Fighter, The Magic User, or The Thief. 
Your selection will determine much about the sorts of obstacles 
you will encounter, and the means by which you will overcome 
them. Ising your mouse, joystick, or [ Arrow! keys, place the 
cursor on the title plate of tlie character you wish to play, tlien 
click on the title plate (press the left mouse button, press the fire 
button, or press [ENTER]). 

Each type of character comes with its own set of skills and 
abilities, some specific to the character type, some common to all 
three. Every type has pre-assigned point values for appropriate 
abilities. In addition, you will begin the game with a 50 point 
"pool" to assign to the areas in which you wish your character to 
be the strongest. 

At the top of die Skill Points screen is an area for you to type 
in your hero's name. Name liim anything you like. If you change 
your mind after you have chosen a character's name, you may use 
the I Backs[iacc j key to erase the character's name. Replace it by 
typing in any name you like. 



THE FIGHTER 



The Fighter depends upon his skill with 
weapons, his strength, and his vitality to 
sunive the rigors of life as a hero. His 
weapon is his sword, and his best defense 
is his shield. We recommend that you play 
a Fighter during your first Quest for Glory' 
adventure. 



THE MAGIC USER 

The Magic User must rely upon his 
intelligence and the successful cttsdng of 
magic spells, fie can best protect himself 
by avoiding close combat. 



THETHIEF 

The Thief counts on his skills, stealth, and 
agility. His weapon of choice is the dagger, 
and he prefers to throw it from a distance. 
He can best ilefend himself in combat by 
dodging^^ 


5 







ASSIGNING SKILL POINTS 


To highlight ii skill, use the mouse cursor, the up and down 
l,\rrow| keys, the [T.\BJ key, or move the joystick up and down. 
To assign points to a skill, press the right mouse bullon, the right 
j. Arrow i key, or move the joystick to the right. Kach time the 
right mouse button or right j .Arrow j key is pressed or tlie joystick 
is moved to the right. 5 points will be assigned to the highlighted 
skill. Press the left mouse button, left [Arrow] key, or move the 
joystick to tile left to subtract 5 points from a skill. (You may not 
delete skill points below the original value of any given skill.) 

To attiiin a skill not normally available to your character ty|)e 
(such as lock-picking for a fighter), choose the desired skill from 
the skill menu and assign points using die procedure describeti 
above. The minimum skill level of 5 will require 15 points from 
the 'Points .Available’ pool. In other words, it will cost you an 
extra 1 0 points to learn the skill. 

Points for Health. Stamina, or Magic cannot be changed by 
you directly. The values for the attributes will change 
automatically as you gain e.\perience, stiffer damage and modify' 
certain skills. 

ABlLtTlES: 

STRENGTH is important in performing physical activities, 
especially combat. The Fighter must be strong to be effective. 

INTELLIGENCE will enable the User to syccesshilly 
learn iind cast spells, and vviit benefli all characters when engaged 
m mental activities, such as out-thinking opponenLs in combat. 
AG [ LITY is important during combat, and vital to lock-picking 
and stealth. The Thief cannot prosper without agility

6 


VITALITY determines how much damage a diaracter can 
sustain, anti how t|uickly he will recover from damage iind 
strenuous physical activity. High vitality Is particularly useful to 
die Fighter. 

LUCK can aid you in many subde and mysterious ways, and is 
especially important to the Thief. 

MAGIC is the basic skill required to learn and cast magic 
spells. 

SKILLS: 

WEAPON USE determines the characlerts ability to land a 
successful blow in combat. 

IV\RRY is the ability to block an opponent's blow using a 
weapon or shield. 

DODGE is a skiO used to avoid a blow by ducking or 
sidestepping it. 

STEALTH is the art of moving quickly and discreetly; taking 
advantage of shadows imd other camoullage when sneaking 
around. 

PICK LOCKS is die skill that allow^s a character to iriiimph 
over locked doors, chests, etc, A lock-pick or Thiefs tool kit is 
necessary^ to use this skill. 

THROWING detemiines your character's aptitude for 
throwing and accurately hitting a target with a small object such 
as a rock or a dagger. 

CLIMB is the skill that allows a character to scale difficult 
surfaces. 


7 



Each character also possesses attributes that are set 
automatically based on certain skills and abilities: 

HEALTH Points gauge the amount of diunage a character can 
suffer before he will die. 

STAMINA Points determine how much energy a character has 
to perform physical activities. When Stamina points are low, the 
character is weak. He will fight less effectively, luid be injured 
more easily. 

MAGIC Points measure the amount of magic a character can 
perform. Wlien magic points are gone, the character will be 
unable to cast spells. 

Skills and abilities improve with practice. Those skills your 
character exercises frequently will improve more rapidly, while 
those left unused will remain fixed at their original levels. Your 
character only advances in skills he is given when you create him: 
skills that were assigned at least 5 skjll points. 


8 


PLAYING A ROLE 


You will begin Quest for (llory as a recent graduate of tlie 
Famous .Adventurer's Correspondence School for heroes. A 
piister in your local Adventurer’s (Juild reads; 



NOlXPERif^NJCESm 

O^MONyPERS, DEFEAT 
8RiGANDS.REWARD,, 
i ANDTlTlE‘HE!tOOP 


It sotimled good, especially the *‘no experience necessan^^’ 
part. Now, after a month’s journey over tortuous terrain, 
narrowly evading death at every' turn, you aren’t as enlliusiastic. 
But. here you are at the town gates, and ifs loo lute to turn back. 
You will defeat the monsters and brigands that plague Spielburg. 
or die trying, (Tlie latter seems more likely at tliis pt>intf ) 

Now you must become your character, and learn to think as 
he would, reason as he would, and solve |}roblems as he would. 
You can only be successful if you use your character s own 
distinct personahw lo keep him alive, ^ 


9 



THE SPECIAL ACTION ICON BAR 


111 iiddilion to the icons in your standiird 
icon bar, yon will notice two different ones. 
One of these is the Special Action icon. 

When yon select it, a separate icon bar 
will appear 




These icons control special actions that you might want your 
character kj take. From left to right: 

WALK causes your Hero to resume walking normally after 
performing another action. 

KUN causes your Hero to nin quickly: (Loi)k out for that 
Saunis!) 

SNEAK causes your Hero to move stealthily. 

SLEEP causes your Hero to take a nap. 

CH ARAC'EE R allows you to look at your Hero’s 
character sheet. 

HOD RG LASS tells you the current giune time. 

CHECK MARK means you don’t want to select any of 
the other icons at this time. Selecting it will take you back to 
the main icon bar. 

QUESTION MARK will give you a definition of the 
other icons in the bar when you move the Question Mark 
Cursor over them. 

10 


LIVING IN THIS CRAZY WORLD 


Just as in real life, there are basic things a person must do to 
stay alive. You will need to eat a couple of meals c*ach day. If you 
are carrying food, you'll eat automatically, but try not to run out 
of rations. 

You’ll also need a certain amount of Sleep (in your Special 
Action icon bar) to regain Health, Stamina, and Magic Points. 
Without sleep you will use these points quickly. Sleep is best 
accomplished at night, as travel is much safer during daylight 
hours. Besides, heroes are notorious for their ‘Type A’ 
personalities. You must be careful where you bed down, though, 
or you may wake up as something’s midnight snack. 

Also as in real life, basic necessities cost money. To earn 
money, you can carry out a quest (they’ll be posted at the guild 
ludi), defeat a wealthy monster, or (worst of all) get a job at the 
casde. In the coin of the realm, ten silver pieces equal one gold. 
Supplies such as food, equipmenl, magical spells and healing 
potions can be purchased from the local shops. 

You will carry most of your equipment in a backpack. The 
amount you can carry is determined by your Strength and the 
weight of the equipmenl. 

If for some reason you arc in a hurry' (a monster on your 
tail, or some such thing), select the Run icon (in your Special 
Action menu) to move more quickly. Don’t run too far, though, 
or you’ll soon become tired. Select the Walk icon to resume 
walking normally. ^ 



WINNING THE GAME 


COMBAT 



The world is full of monslers and vitiuins, and if you want to 
Slay alive long enough to become a Hero, you really ought to 
learn how to figjit them. A dash will occur any time a monster 
conies near enough to strike your character. Combat can take 
place in the room w’here you encounter a monster (allowing 
more movement and strategy), or the screen may change to a 
close-up view of the monster. 

When you encounter a monster, you will have to react 
quickly. You can throw daggers or cast an appropriate spell while 
the monster is still at a distance, or you can eng^e it with your 
sword when it comes close enough. 

Timing is the most important element of combat strategy in 
Quest for Glory. Try to strike when your opponent is ‘'open", and 
anticipate his attacks to better defend yourself. Your choice to 
eillier block or dodge blows sliould depend on your 
skills and equipment. 


When you complete Quest for (ilory sticcessfiiily, you will be 
given the opportunity to save your character for use in Quest for 
Glory II: Trial by Fire. Yoti will be asked to insert a formatted, 
wrileable disk. Save tliis disk, as it will allow you tt) begin Trial by 
Fire at an advantage. 

TALKING TO OTHER 
CHARACTERS 


You will meet many strange beasts in Spielburg Valley — 
some human, some otherwise. Most of them know things that 
you don't, and that you will need to learn. By speaking with them 
you can gain some of that knowledge. 

You should TALK to everyone you 
meet. (Click the MOUTH 
icon on them.) You'll want 
to jot down anything 
seems important, as your 
conversations will provide 
you with most of the clues 
you'll need to become a 
Hero. 

Many of the replies to your 
queries may suggest that further communication 
would be helpful, or lead you to others who may 
provide you with useful information. Pay attention lo everylhing 
that’s said to you, and keep your eyes open! ^ 



13 




FlGHTliR'S COMBA T MENU 


ALTERNATE 

MENU 


SWING 

!»j3eJ) 3t ttittr 
tippnwnL 

BLOCK 

bltidi yuur 
opputncurs 
Woftv 



1X>DCE 
LEFT 
tjUi&yiMi lo 

opponem's 

dodfijn^ Idi 



MAGIC USHrS COA1BAT A\ENU 


ALTERNATE 

MENU 



dppAnOlE 


DART 
CjuttSi iTvu la 
cafluFLiW: 
IWspdl. 


DAZZLE 
Cnjsi^yixi la 
casu 
iwmE 
3pdl. 



14 


i 


when you engage a monster in baiile. a Combat Menu will 
appear in the lower right hand corner of yotir screen. There are 
three different variations on the Combat Menu: One for Fighters. 
(Sword) one forTliieves, (Dagger) tint! one for Magic Users. The 
Sword or Dagger menu will appear automatically, depending on 
which weapon yoti are carrying. Voti can switch between that 
menu and the Magic menu by clicking on the center of the menti, 
or pressing the 1 5 1 key in llic center of yotir keypad. You can do 
battle either by selecting your actions on the Combat Menu with 
your mouse or joystick, or by using the corresponding keys on 
your keypad. 

If you feel that the siitiation has gotten out of hand, switch to 
the Magic menu and select the RUN icon to “make tracks". 

Many battles can be avoided, and it might be wise at times to 
do so. Combat, however, is one of the best way's for ;m aspiring 
Hero to [inictice and improve liis skills. Each time you defeat a 
monster, you'll gain valuable experience that will increiuse your 
chances in future battles. Remember, always seardi the body of 
your opponent (click the HA.ND icon on the body) after winning a 
battle, for some creatures ctirry money or other usefiil items. 


In most cases. Status Bars are displayed during combat, 
keeping you informed of Health, Status and Mana (magic energy) 
points for your character. As you become injured, Health points 
diminish. You will use Stamina points as you work hard at 
fighting or using your skills. When Stamina points are depleted, 
energy is drawn from Health. When Health points are gone, the 
character is dead. A Health Bar is also displayed for your 
opponent, to show how badly it is injured. ^ 






THIEF SKILLS 


Thief characters have two special skills; ‘Pick Locks’ and 
‘Stealth'. To use these skills, dick your Lock-Pick from your 
inventory on the lock in question, or select the SNliAK icon from 
the Action menu to move quietly. When you are finished 
‘Sneakinjt’, select the WALK icon to resume walking normally. 
Sneaking helps you avoid being seen or heard by monsters and 
other enemies. 


USING MAGiC 

THE MAGIC ICON BAR 

In addition to your standard icons and your 
Special .Action Icon at the top of your screen, 
you will notice a Magic icon. 


If you are a Magic User and you select the Magic Icon, a 
Magic Icon Bar and a Magic Inventory will appear. 



The Magic Icon Bar consisLs of four symbols. Left to right: 

LOOK (EYE cursor) allows you to look at the spells in your 
inventory. You will get the name and definition of the spell, as well 
as the MPs needed to cast It, and the level of skill your Hero has 
in that particular spell. 

DO (HAND cursor) allows you to cast the spell you have 
clicked the hand cursor on. 

CHECKMARK means you don’t want to cast any spells 
at this time. Selecting it will take you hack to the main icon bar. 

QUESTION MARK gives you a deflniton of the other 
icons in the bar when you click It on them. 

Below the Magic Icon Bar is your Magic Inventory. The 
beginning magic user wiil have only one spell: Zap. Your Hero 
can aquire up to seven other spells during the course of the 
game. A full listing of spells can be found in your Famous 
Adventurer's Correspondence School booklet. Your Magic User’s 
spell casting will improve with practice. 

To cast a spell, select the spell from your Magic Inventory 
with the HAND (DO) cursor, then click the spell icon on the 
person or tiling at which you wish to cast it. 

Flame Dart is the One-And-Only directional spell. All others 
are cast as soon as clicked on. 

PLAYING THE WIZARD'S GAME 



First, rend How to Play the Mage's Maze in your Famous 
Adventurer’s Correspondence School guidebook. Erasmus’ 
version has a few variations. 

The maze screen consists of two Status Icons, four Spell 
Buttons, and a maze strewn with bridges, ladders, and hotiiders. 
IVo hyperactive ‘bugs’ are trying not to fall off the cliffs. The blue 
creattire is yours, and the purple one belongs to Erasmus. The 
object is to encourage your bug to finish the game Brst. 

The Status icons show your current Magic Points (MP) and 
the amount of time remaining on your current spell. 

You play the game by casting spells at the game board. If you 
have a mouse, simply click on the Spell Button you wish to use. 
From the keyboard, use the left and right cursor keys to move the 
sword cursor to the Spell Button you want, then press [ENTER] to 
cast the spell. With a joystick, move the stick in the desired 
direction and press the ‘fire’ button to cast the spell. 

Once you have selected a spell, the Tinier starts. How 
much time you have depends on your skill level in the 
chosen spell. The exception is the Tri^er spell, 
which always works, and takes effect immetliately. 


L'se the Fetch sped to move a bridge or ladder into position. 
Point the mouse at any bridge or ladder, press the left mouse 
button, move the object where you want it, then release the 
mouse button. Using the keyboard or joystick, press [ENTER] 
(or the ‘fire’ button) to pick up the object, and again to place it. 

Use the Open spell to remove a boulder from your 
bug’s path. Point to the offending boulder, tlien click 
the mouse or press [ENTER]. The boulder will 
vanish and reappear in another (random) 
position. 

Use tlie Trigger spell to change the size 
of your creature. Each Trigger spell 
will change the creature to the next 
size — Small to Medium, 
Medium to Large, or Large to 
Small. Only Small bugs can travel through 
tunnels, and only Medium bugs can climb 
ladders. Medium bugs hke to eat Small ones, 
and are themselves the favorite food of Large 
bugs. All sizes are easily distracted when 
food, a predator, or a friend is near. Same-size 
bugs are attracted to one another. 

The Flame Dart spell will put a miniature 
sun in the maze. Use the mouse, joystick 
or the cursor keys to position it. The bugs hke 
warmth, and will be attracted to nearby heat sources. 
Should eitiier bug die, a new one will appear at the top of 
the maze, va 




QUEST FOR GLORY WALK-THROUGH 


WARNINti! The following seciion ineliides hints ili^i experienced 

game players may not want to see. Coniiniie reading ONLY if you have 

irouhle getting slarled placing Quest for i'Aov). 

• Select introduction'. Click the mouse, press ( E.NTER1, or press [Fircl to see 
the stirring introduction and credits, then strap on your aniior, take up your 
s^word and shields and prepare for the ultimate quest— the Quest for Glory . 

• On the '€h(x>sc a Characler' screen, dick your mouse or move the joy'stick 
mm the 1-igliter muiieplaie, or press your (TAB| key^ to higliliglii the Fighter 
nameplate and press [ ENTER | or [Fire| to select the Fighter. 

• VoiJ uill now see the Character Sheet' highlighting your character's abilities. 

• Click the mouse, press [I\B j or use your joystick to highlight STRENGTH 25- 

• Press right ntouse button or press your cursor | Right v\rrow] key 10 times, or 
move your joystick to the right. Your strength is now 75, 

• Xiune your Hero. 

• Select ST.\RT and click tlie mouse or press | ENTER | or | Fire j to start 
your Quest. 

• A message window w ill appear after most of your actions. Press [ ENTER) 
to remove the window and resume play. 

• You are now in the town of Spielburg. Read ihe messages. 

• LOOK at the Sheriff. (Click the icon on the Sheriff. ) 

• LOOK at Otto. (Click the BT icon on Otto, ) 

• Select the WALK icon, md use your mouse, joystick or | Arrow) keys to move 
your Hero to the uj^per right screen comer. Exit sc reen^ right. 

• j,OOK at the fmil. (Click the EVTl on the fruit.) 

• l(M)K at the Ca^uiauress. (Click the FTE on the Centaurc^s. ) 

• TALK to the Cxmtauress. (Click ilte MOITII icon on her.) Gain as much 
infoniiation as you can. 

• Select W'.VI.K. Using your mouse, [Arrow] keys or joy'stick move yoiir Hero off 
screen -left, 

20 


• (If your Hero is moving too fast or too slowly , select the Control icon from 
die menu at die top of your screen. When the Comn>l tmnel appe^irs, 
adjust your Hero's speed to your liking). 

• LOOK at your surroundings, (use the EYT icon, ) 

• Move your 1 lero toward the door of the tavern (the sign above the door 
will tell you which door that is). Click your IL\ND on the door, and it will 
open. 

• You are now in the tavern. LOOK around (FAT icon), and read the 
messages. 

• Use the Control pimel to SA\T your g.une. Name y our MVED game, "in the 
tavern", 

• Move your Hero to the dean, empty^ burslool. 

• Click the H-iND icon on the stool to sit. 

• TAI-K to the barkeep. ( MOUTH icon.) 

• When the conversiUion menu appears, select ‘‘Ask ahmit DRINKS 

• Ne.xl. select "ask about DRAGON’S BREATH”. 

• Go up to your INATNTORY, and sek*ci your MONET 

• Cli ck you r MONIA' on the barkeep . 

• Select DRAGONT BREATH. 

• (Oops! Good thing you saved your game!) 

• Use the Control panel to RluSTORE your game. 

• This brings you back to the point at which you &ived the game. Everyihing 
you did aher saving your game is now gone. Let’s try this again: 

• Mtwe your Hero to die riglil bai- stool, 

• LOOK at the stool. 

• Maybe Spielburg really does need someone to dean up around here! 

• Now that you've been introduced to Spielburg and the world of Quest for 
Glory, select RESTART on the Ctmtrol panel to smrt your game over. Now 
Select START A NW HERO, and ertnite the Hero of your choice. Be sure to 
save your game frequentmy, and have fun ! ^ 


21 



CREDITS 


EXECUTIVE PRODUCER

Ken WilliamS 


CREATIVE DIRECTOR 

Bill Davis 


PHODUCER 

Smart Moulder 


GAME DESIGNERS 

hm Cole & C(}re\ Cole 

ART DESIGNER 

vVrium Sindiiir 


LEAD PROGRAMMERS 

Tom DeSidvo 

Bob Fischhach 


Oliver Brelsford 


COMPOSER 

Mark Seibert 


ANIAWTORS 

Jonaihaji Bock 

Jeff Crowe 


Jerr\' Moore 

.Arturo Sinclair 


Willis Wong 

Gloria Garkind 


Diana Wilson 

Eric Kasner 


Marc Hudgins 

Roger Hardy 


Fnuik Ferrell 

Richard Powell 

BACKGROUND ARTISTS 

Anuro Sinckur 

Willis Wong 


Jonailian Bock 

Frank Ferrell 


Bob Gleason 

Gloria Garland 


Cindy W^alker 

Terrence C. Falls 

PROGHAM;V\ERS 

Vana N. Baker 

Carlos Escobar 


Richard Aronson 

Robert L. Mallory' 


Bret! Miller 


MUSIC DIRECrOR 

Mark Seibert 


DEVELOP.M ENT SYSTEM 

Larrv Scou 

Jeff Stephenson 


[);in Foy 

Christopher Smith 


Jack M agile 

Mark Wilden 


Ken Kocli 

j. Mark Hood 

SOUND E EE ECrS 

Aubrey Hodges 


qUALm^ASSUR^VNCE 

John RaiclifTe 

Mike Brosiiis 

DOCUMENTATION 

Lori Ann Cole 

Lorelei Shannon 

MANUAL DESIGNER 

Mark limpey 

