
=====TURICAN II=====
==THE FINAL FIGHT===


LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

AMIGA
To avoid the danger of computer viruses, please first turn off your Amiga and turn
it on again after a few seconds. Amiga 1000 users must now insert the Kickstart
disk. As soon as the screen shows the icon of the Workbench disk insert the game
disk into drive DF0. The program will start automatically.

ATARI ST
Turn off your computer and insert DISK 1 into drive A. As soon as you turn on your
computer again, the computer will load and start the game automatically. Follow
the instructions on the screen.

C64 DISK
Insert the game disk into your disk drive and type Load ":*",8,1. Press the RETURN
key. The program will start automatically. Follow the instructions on the screen.

C64 TAPE
Rewind the tape and insert the tape into the data recorder. Press SHIFT and RUN/
STOP simultaneously. Press PLAY on your recorder. The program will start
automagically. Follow the instructions on the screen.

AMSTRAD DISK
Insert the disk into your drive, side A showing face up. Type RUN"DISK and press
RETURN. The game will load and start automatically. Follow the instructions on the
screen.

AMSTRAD TAPE
Owners of a CPC 664, 6128, or 464 with a disk drive have to enter ITAPE and then
press RETURN. lnsert the rewound tape into the data recorder, side A showing face
up. Press Control and small Enter simultaneously. Press PLAY on your datarecorder.
The game will start automatically. Follow the instructions on the screen.

SPECTRUM DISK
Turn your computer off, and then on again. Insert the disk into your drive, side A
showing face up. Now select item LOADER from the menu, and press the ENTER
key. The game will start automatically. Follow the instructions on the screen.

SPECTRUM TAPE
      Owners of a +3 first select item +3 BASIC from the 'On' menu and press
      the ENTER key.
128K: Insert the rewound tape into the data recorder, side A showing face up.
      Press ENTER and press PLAY afterwards. Follow the instructions on the
      screen.
48K:  Insert the rewound tape into the data recorder, side A showing face up.
      Now enter LOAD"" and press the ENTER key. The game will load and start
      automatically. Follow the instructions on the screen.



PROLOGUE

THE LEGEND OF TURRICAN
CONTINUES...

Morgul, the three-headed incarnation of evil, has finally been destroyed! But you,
Turrican, cannot rest because your most dangerous ond most noble mission is yet
to commence...

A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away, brave rebellious fighters destroyed the
menacing hordes of the MACHINE and it's tyranny-spreading satellite, which circled
the planet of the brave, the planet called Landorin.

The evil moon has gone, but Landorin wasn't free. The MACHINE still ruled the sur-
face of the planet. The Landorins retreated to the inner core of their world to await
their destiny...DEATH. The machines and mutants, however, went on to roam
through the deserted ruins of a long-lost paradise in search of the entrance to the
secret caves.

Before, the Landorins retreated, they managed to send a desperate cry for help:
A last radio signal floats through the endless reaches of the tri-solar system and off
to the farthest reaches of the universe. The cry is heard, and a man has to be
found... A man with the courage to face the hordes, a man to free the last survivors
of Landorin, a man on his most dangerous adventure ever... TURRICAN.

Go out to seek the MACHINE and its slaves, collect the weapons and ships of an
ancient civilization and free the planet Landorin forever!



THE GAME
Turrican travels through five different worlds in which he will be confronted by
various perils. In the middle of the game he has to enter a space ship ond fight
through 3 levels with this hyper fast-moving ship. Ever changing enemies will
constantly try to destroy you. You will have to use your weapons skillfully in order
to survive the various levels. To assist you in battle, further weapons and extras
may be obtained during your journey, e.g. forceshields and extra lives.

Examine every level closely, you will find new surprises and useful items
everywhere.



HOW TO PLAY THE GAME
General information: The game is played with joystick and keys. Owners of an
Amiga may use a joystick with two independent fire buttons. This is explained
below.

Joystick up:
      Player jumps. If he is in the gyroscope mode, he will transform back to normal
      again.

Joystick down:
      Player ducks away, e.g. from enemies.

Joystick down ond press space:
      (For Amiga: Joystick down and press second fire button.)
      The player will transform into a gyroscope. While in this state the player
      is invincible and will destroy enemies on touch. The gyroscope spins
      automatically, and can only be directed to move left or right with the
      joystick. This shape also allows you to pass through narrow corridors.

      Turrican may transform into a gyroscope as often as he wants to. Only in
      the gyroscope mode he can place mines... The mine is placed on the
      ground and explodes shortly afterwards. Various enemies around can be
      dealt with in this manner.

Joystick left/right:
      Moves player left/right.

Keeping the firebutton depressed:
      The player can activate a flash of lightning (Surround) and may direct it
      (as long as the firebutton is held), by moving the joystick left (lightning
      rotates anti-clockwise) or right (lightning rotates clockwise). The lightning
      can be of different lengths. At the beginning of the game it stretches over
      half the width of the screen. By gathering up extras it can be extended to
      stretch over the whole width of the screen.

Pressing firebutton briefly:
      Player fires.



THE WEAPONS

MULTIPLE SHOT
The multiple shot can be increased twice in strength by collecting the right symbols.
That means in the end this weapon has 5 shots.

LASER
The laser has a high penetration rate, making it very effective when fighting against
several enemies simultaneously.

The laser fires horizontally, and can be increased in strength by up to 5 times by
gathering up the corresponding symbols. The laser will then increase in width and
become more effective.

BOUNCE
This shot can be increased in strength by up to three times.

Very efficient in narrow passages or caves. When twice in strength, the balls burst
into smaller balls bouncing back from the walls.

POWER LINES
    ATARI ST, C64, SPECTRUM: SPACE BAR
    AMIGA: SPACE BAR or second fire button
    AMSTRAD: RETURN
Releases two energy beams, moving right and left over the full height of the screen.

All enemies in range will be destroyed. Should an obstacle bar the way, the beam
will be terminated.

SUPERWEAPON
    Pressing the firebutton and SPACE (or second firebutton) simultaneously
The super weapon is activated. Once per life Turrican can activate this weapon. It
is the most effective weapon as all weapon systems are activated simultaneously.

The window at the bottom left indicates whether this weapon is still available.

PAUSE GAME
    Pressing CTRL: Pauses game
    Press the firebutton to continue

ESC
Quit the game and return to the introductory sequence.



THE SYMBOLS
During his mission, the player will find the following symbols with useful functions:
[All pictures omitted.]

Shoot this symbol to activate the hidden extra.

Red - MULTIPLE
Activates multiple shot. If already active, the shot will
increase in strength.

Green - LASER
Activates laser. If already active, the Laser will be
increased in strength.

Purple - BOUNCE
Activates the bounce shots. If already active, the
Bounce will be increased in strength.

Blue - SURROUND
Extends lightning.

Light blue - SHIELD
Activates force shield, making the player invincible for
a short duration. Enemies will be destroyed on touch
during this period.

Yellow 'P' - POWER-UP
Rechorges erergy.

White 'L' - POWER LINE
The player gains an energy beam.

Grey '1up' - ONE-UP
The player gains an extra life.

Yellow - SMART BOMB
Touching this symbol destroys all smaller opponents
on the screen.

Diamonds
Once the player has gathered up 100 diamonds, he receives another 'CONTINUE',
i.e. has the chance to continue the game after all lives have been lost. The
maximum no. of CONTINUES is 5 (that means there are exactly 599 diamonds
hidden). You can view the number of CONTINUES at the bottom left.
NOTE: There are no CONTINUES when the game is started.



The player has 3 lives at the start of each game. He can lose them in three ways:
    1. Time, indicated on the display, runs out. The screen display with
    announce TIME OUT.
    2. The player has lost all of his energy. A loss of energy occurs every time
    the player touches an enemy or is hit by enemy fire.
    3. The player falls into an abyss.



If you lose a life the number of energy beams will default to 3. Surround, multiple,
bounce and laser will be reduced - if not already at minimum strength.



THE DISPLAY
The player can gain the following information from the display (from left to right):

      > Number of lives (Amiga: Upper left corner of the screen).
      > Number of CONTINUES (Amiga/ST: diode display).
      > Time.
      > Number of diamonds.
      > Number of energy beams.
      > Score (Amiga: Upper-right corner of the screen).
      > Energy (above score).



HIGHSCORE TABLE
Please follow the instructions on the screen!

AMIGA, ATARI ST, SPECTRUM, AMSTRAD
If you achieve a top score, you may enter the highscore table. After entering your
name press RETURN.

C64
A menu will appear. Enter the main menu by pressing the firebutton. Pressing the
S-key will prompt a request to insert side 1 of your disk. Return to the menu by
pressing the RUN/STOP-key, or press the firebutton to save a highscore.

AMSTRAD, SPECTRUM, C64, TAPE VERSIONS
It is not possible to save highscores.



TIPS & TRICKS
      > Try to use all weapon systems. Think carefully which system will best
        helps you in a given situation.
      > Use the gyroscopes! Remember you can use them as often as you want
        to. Don't forget you are invulnerable and can use mines!
      > Collect as many lives and Continues as possible
      > Never give up - there is always a solution...
      > Do not always take the easiest way - there are hidden secrets everywhere.



CREDITS
                   Designed by  Manfred Trenz
                                Andreas Escher
                                Holger Schmidt
                                Julian Eggebrecht
                                (based on an original design by Manfred Trenz)
    C64 - version developed by  Rainbow Arts
16 Bit - versions developed by  Factor 5
   Z80 - versions developed by  Enigmo Variations

                 Programmed by  Manfred Trenz (C64)
                                Holger Schmidt (Amiga) - courtesy of Factor 5
                                Thomas Engel (Atari ST) - courtesy of Factor 5

                   Graphics by  Andreas Escher (C64, Amiga)
                                Manfred Trenz (C64)
                                Sven Meier (Atari ST)

       Music & Soundeffects by  Chris Huelsbeck (Amiga) - courtesy of A.U.D.I.O.S.
                                Markus Siebold (C64)
                                Jochen Hippel (Atari ST)
                                Manfred Trenz (C64)

               Package Artwork  Celal Kandemiroglu
                        Layout  Monika Röder

             Marketing & Press  Kristin Dodt
                                Stefan Graen

                   Produced by  Julian Eggebrecht

              Managing Director  Marc A. Ullrich



(C) 1991 by RAINBOW ARTS
PRINTED IN THE U.K. BY 
CREATIVE ADVERTISING & PRINTING
