                     THEME PARK MYSTERY SOLUTION

Typed in by PARASITE of LSD.


YESTERLAND
Before you can leave the station you need to collect the pass from
Zoltan by giving him a token. The tokens can be found on the Bagetelle
machine. Zoltan lives in the first machine, he holds the key to many
things, most importantly the Dreamland timer.
It is necessary to unblock the coin slot by pressing the eject button
before it will accept any tokens. It is not essential to play the
Bagatelle machine, but if you win you can collect tokens which can be
used at the Fortune-teller to gain extra lives. You get two cracks at
the Bagetelle machine straight away, so use your first attempt to
gauge how long to hold your mouse button for.
The most importamt card is the Dreamland timer. This allows you to set
the amount of time you spend there. Its best to give yourself at least
thirty minutes.
The third machine, the grabber, hides a Demon. Collect this one last
as it destroys your control panel.

DRAGONLAND
You need to keep your eyes open at all times here, theres the constant
danger of traps.
The aim in dragonland is to collect the Fire and Water Demons plus the
casket which is used to present them to Zoltan. An important lesson in
keeping Demons under control; aim to collect the demons who are least
likely to destroy your control panel first, because once its gone,
you're  without a chance.
In addition you have to collect five cogs which allow you to fix the
Dragon Ride, which must be given to the Dragon at the end of the
level.
Its not advisable to try and complete Dragonland straight away;
instead try and locate the dream potion, which gives you access to
Dreamland. Start by collecting the torch from outside the Dragonland
station. Now board and enter the first cavern. Avoid the Ape and climb
the ladder. Avoid the balls and bump into the object in front of the
Ape, which should slow things down a bit. Go left and climb up the
chimney.
When you get to the top you'll find the sleep potion on the right.
Select the potion and you'll be whisked off to Dreamland. Unless you
have the timer your visit will be extremely short.

DREAMLAND
Get the ladder first, as failing to do so means you cannot progress
any further through the level. Keep a lookout for locations where the
hand appears.
The aim here is to collect two demons, one of which eats the mouse
pointer on the control panel.
To move through Dreamland you need to collect various keys. These can
be brought in via Dragonland, or created by throwing gold coins at the
floor. The keys are used to open boxes which are made by bumping into
Chess pieces.
Aside from the Demons there's the ticket to futureland, which is
essential to complete the game.

FUTURELAND
While blasting, try to collect the floating balls (which are Demons),
and deposit them in your cargo hold. When another ship is destroyed,
grab the debris which will replenish your shield. you must rely on
your reflexes, and practice getting used to how the gun fires, its
just a matter of point and shoot.
Once Futureland is completed you should go back to Dragonland and try
to complete that level.
If things get out of hand in any sections go back to yesterland as
soon as possible to gain help from Zoltan in the form of an extra-
lives card.

End.
