
 LEISURE SUIT LARRY 5

 INTRODUCTION

 Hi, and welcome to Sierra's latest creation: LEISURE SUIT LARRY 5!  LSL5
offers scrolling screens, Sierra's new parserless interface, and incredible
animation.

 LSL5 consists of several different parts. They may be played in any order you
wish, and are largely independent.

 As with all Sierra games, save often. In fact, LSL5 will prompt you to save 
before each new sequence begins.

 Several puzzles have more than one solution: this walkthru will help you get 
through the game, but may not tell you every solution to every puzzle.

 PORN PROD CORP
 
 You start off as Larry in Porn Prod Corp headquarters. When you hear a voice 
yell for coffee from behind the office door, click the HAND on the coffee pot,
and take it in. You'll be given a camera. (Note: if you skipped the opening 
animation, you will not be asked to make the coffee).
 Back in the office click the HAND on the door on the back wall and go into 
the file room. Take the resumes from the file cabinet on the right by clicking
the HAND on it. Once you have the resumes, click on each one of them in your 
inventory. Each contains an item you'll need later on. Take the AeroDork card 
laying on the table, and leave the room.

 Now, go to the video tape room. Get the three tapes on the table by clicking 
the HAND on them. Before you can use them, they have to be degaussed. So, one 
by one, click them on the degausser on the top wall. Click on the drawer on 
the top left corner and get the camera charger.

 Select a tape from the inventory and click it into your camera. Now, go out-
side, you'll find a limo waiting for you. Get into the limo, and the driver 
will take you to the airport.

 AIRPORT

 You will visit several airports during the game, and they all look alike. At 
the airport go to the AeroDork machine and insert your card. You'll be 
presented with a list of places to which you may fly. You may play in any 
order you wish, but we'll start with New York. When the machine asks you for 
the code, click on the buttons as indicated in your manual. Take your boarding
pass, and go into the airport. Go to the door in the middle of the far wall, 
which is locked. Hold your AeroDork card up to the camera, the door will open,
and in you'll go. As soon as the "Now Boarding" light comes on, click your 
boarding pass into the slot to the right of the door, the door will open, and 
you'll go in. On the plane, take the magazine from the seat pocket, and read 
it.

 You must be tired because you drift off to sleep and dream of Patti ...

 FBI LAB

 Well Patti, time for you to do some undercover work. Desmond will take you to
the FBI Lab. First, explore the lab. Click the EYE on each person working 
there for a demonstration of their projects. Now, click the WALK icon and go 
to the right. Commander Twit will give you a contact number, and some codes:
write these down. Now you'll get your, uh, "Safety First Field Locator 
Device." Sit back and enjoy the animation. When you get back into the Lab,
take the Dataman and the DataPaks by clicking the HAND on them. Click the HAND
on the Hooter Shooter to take that, then go outside.

 Enter the Limo. To tell Bobbi where to take you, insert a DataPak into the 
Dataman, and then show the DataMan to her. For now, insert the PC Hammer 
DataPak into the Dataman, and then click it on Bobbi. While you're traveling 
you fall asleep ...

 NEW YORK

 Welcome to New York, Larry. Before you go see Michelle in the Hard Disk Cafe,
there are several things to do at the airport. First, if you haven't put a 
video tape into the camera, do so. Now, go the far West side of the terminal. 
Click the charger into the electrical outlet on the wall, and then click the 
camera onto the charger. Keep clicking the EYE on the camera until it's
charged 100%, then click the HAND on it to retrieve it.

 Go back to the right. When you pass the Jerry's Kids collection box, click 
the HAND icon on it to get a quarter. Go to the phone on the right. On the 
way over read all the signs up top; one of the signs has a limo service phone 
number, write that number down. Go to the phone (only one works in New York 
or anywhere else for that matter) and call the limo service. Go outside to 
meet the limo.

 In the limo, click on the napkin in your inventory and show it to the driver,
who'll take you to the Hard Disk Cafe. Before you leave the limo, take the Day
Trotter laying on the seat, and look inside it.

 Enter the Hard Disk Cafe and talk to the Maitre d'. Keep talking to him, and 
talking to him, and talking to him (you get the idea). Eventually, he'll give 
you a ticket, and you can enter. But (there's always a but!) you can't go all 
the way inside. Did you read the magazine on the plane? Good, then you'll know
that you should rub your ticket on the music box to change the holes on it. Go
back outside and click your ticket on the music box, go back in, and into the 
Herman Hollerith room.

 There she is! Click the TALK icon on Michelle several times, until she 
invites you to her table. Talk to her some more, and then give her the Day 
Trotter. Click the HAND icon on the camera in your inventory to turn it on. 
Now, give Michelle the credit cards. Then sit back and, er, well, enjoy! Once 
Michelle finishes with you, walk to the phone in the lobby and call the limo 
company; the limo will take you back to the airport.

 At the airport, buy a ticket to Atlantic City. Enter the airport and board 
the plane as is described in the AIRPORT section. On the plane you fall asleep
again, and dream of Patti ...

 K-RAP

 Well, it looks as if you've arrived at K-RAP, Patti. Click the HAND on the 
front door to go inside. On the left is Mr. Krapper's office, click the HAND 
on it to enter.

 Once in the office you have to peek into the desk. There are two ways you get
the desk open. Either get the letter opener from the disk and pick the lock, 
or take the key from the base of the tall plant and open it. When you have the
drawer open, click the HAND icon to find what is inside.

 First you'll find a blue stickum with a number, write the number down. (Note:
each time you play you'll get a different number; remember this when restoring
a different game). Click the HAND on the drawer again to get the folder. A-ha,
here's the evidence you need! Click the folder on the copy machine to make 
copies. Oops! Looks like the machine is history, but before Mr. Krapper gets
back, put everything back where it was. If you took the key, replace it. If 
you have the letter opener, put it back on the desk.

 Look at you, Patti, you're filthy! Click the HAND on the bathroom door, and 
then go into the shower to clean up.

 Oh, no! What a mess! Stark naked you descend in a see-through elevator. When 
you reach the bottom, click the HAND on the clothes to put them on, then go 
one screen to the right. You need to go into Control Room B. When you're asked
for an access code, enter the number that was on the blue stickum.

 In the control room, click the HAND on the reel-to-reel tape on the back 
wall, then click the tape on the tape deck on the bottom left. Click the HAND 
icon six times on the control panel beneath the microphone. Now, click the 
HAND on the reel-to-reel tape recorder. Looks like you are recording the evi-
dence you needed! When PC Hammer locks you in the control room, click the HAND
on the tape three times to retrieve it. Now, click the HAND on the control 
panel to turn the volume up, click the TALK icon on the microphone, and 
shatter the glass! (And you thought you had a good voice!)

 Now to get to des Rever Records. Back in the limo, insert the Reverse Biaz 
DataPak into the Dataman, and then click it on Bobbi. While you're traveling,
you fall asleep ...

 ATLANTIC CITY

 Welcome to Atlantic City. Before you go downtown, insert a new video tape 
into the camera. Go all the way to the west side of the terminal, click the 
charger into the electrical outlet on the wall, then click the camera onto 
the charger. Keep clicking the EYE on the camera until it is charged 100%, 
then click the HAND on it to retrieve it.

 Click the HAND on the slot machine to get a quarter for the phone, find 
the limo phone number by reading the signs at the top of the terminal, go the 
only working phone on the east side of the airport, and call a limo.

 Go outside, and into the limo. Look at Lana's resume in your inventory, and 
get the matchbook. Click the matchbook on the driver, and she'll take you to 
Tramp Casino.

 At the Casino talk to the girl to the left of the door. She'll play a guess-
ing game with you and give you 10 coins. (You wish real life was that easy!)
 
 Go into the casino, and play video poker. You have to win about 700 coins. 
The only way to do this is to always bet the highest amount you can, save 
every time you win, and restore every time you lose. When you have won enough 
money, take the cash.

 Now, go to the door on the rear wall. Inside, you can watch Jennifer Jiggle 
for 25 coins. When she finishes her show, go back into the casino, and then go
outside to the boardwalk.

 Go right until you find Ivana's Skates and rent a pair of skates from her. 
Click on the money and give it to her for a deposit. Go outside and skate.

 When Lana Luscious appears, TALK to her. She'll invite you to her mud 
wrestling show. After she leaves, remove the skates, and return them to Ivana.
Go back to the Casino Ballroom.

 In the Ballroom pay your 500 coins and take a seat up front. Click the hand 
on the camera to turn it on. Lana will invite you up onto the stage. When her 
body parts start appearing all over the screen, click the HAND on them to grab
them.

 Oh well, this one didn't work out that well, did it Larry? Go outside, talk 
to the valet standing on the right of the door, and he'll call the limo for 
you.

 Back at the airport, buy a ticket to Miami. See the AIRPORT section above for
complete instructions on buying a ticket and boarding the plane. On the plane 
you fall asleep, yet again ...

 DES REVER RECORDS

 Okay, Patti, you've arrived at des Rever Records. Go inside and walk over to 
the gold record. Click the HAND to take it and play it on the recorder. You 
have to play it forwards and backwards at 33 and 78 RPMs. A-ha! Looks like you
have your evidence.

 Go into the studio by clicking the HAND on the studio door. Click the 
HAND on the synthesizer to play it. You'll have to make three recordings until
Reverse Biaz is satisfied. Back in the control booth, click the ZIPPER icon in
Reverse Biaz, and, well....

 When you're done, the limo driver will take you back home.

 MIAMI

 Welcome to Miami, Larry. Before you leave the airport you must put a fresh 
tape in the camera, and recharge the camera battery. Go the far west side of 
the terminal. Click the charger into the electrical outlet on the wall, and 
then click the camera onto the charger. Keep clicking the EYE on the camera 
until it is charged 100%; click the HAND on it to retrieve it.

 Click the HAND icon on the vending machine to get two coins for the phone. 
Look at the signs on top of the terminal, get the limo phone number, and the 
phone number for Just Green Cards. Call Just Green Cards using the only work-
ing phone, then call the limo company.

 Outside the airport, click the HAND on the garbage can to get the green card,
then enter the limo. Look at Chi Chi's resume in your inventory and get the 
business card. Show the card to the driver; she'll take you to Dr. Pulliam.

 When you get to the doctor's office, go inside. Take the doily from the table
on the right and click it on yourself. Go TALK to the receptionist. She'll 
send you into see Chi Chi. TALK to Chi Chi. Then, turn the camera on by click-
ing the HAND on it, and give her the Green Card. She'll show her appreciation
by taking you downstairs to the gym.

 Once you have finished with the gym, go back into the doctor's office and use
the phone to call the limo company. The driver will take you back to the 
airport. At the airport buy a ticket back to Los Angeles. 

 FLIGHT HOME

 When the plane starts to crash, the stewardess will ask for a volunteer to 
fly it home. Hey, you're game, Larry! You'll be led to the cockpit.

 Click the HAND all over the controls until you find the Auto Pilot. That's 
it! You saved innocent lives: you're a hero! (Hm, didn't you become a hero 
in one of your previous adventures?). Sit back and enjoy the animation.

 THE WHITE HOUSE

 Patti, you're about to perform at the White House, when in comes Larry!
 Watch the animation, and when Julius Bigg holds you at gun point, click on 
the Hooter Shooter in your inventory, and then click on Mr. Bigg.

 CONCLUSION

 That's it folks! You never did find out what happened to LSL 4, why Larry and
Patti were separated in the first place, and why Patti dreamed about every man
she ever met besides Larry, but, hey, maybe LSL4 will crop up one day.

 Sit back and enjoy the ending, you deserved it. And until next time, (or 
until Patti finds your video tapes)....

 LEISURE SUIT LARRY 5 is published and distributed by Sierra On-Line, Inc.

 This walkthru is copyright (c) 1991 by Benny Hill. All rights reserved. Rygar
