


                         THEME PARK FULL DOCUMENTS


     CHAPTER 1: WELCOME TO THEME PARK.
     The Aim Of The Game                                   8
     The Main Menu                                         9

     CHAPTER 2: DESIGNING A NEW PARK.
     Your Player Details                                   10
     Your Player Details Are                               10
     Where in the World                                    12
     Site Details Screen                                   13
     To Leave Site Details Screen                          14
     Park Details Screen                                   15
     To Leave Park Details Screen                          15
     Tutorial                                              16
     Following The Tutorial                                16

     CHAPTER 3: IN THE PARK
     Using The Icon Bar                                    18
     Paving Paths                                          19
     Tolay paths                                           20
     Forming a queue                                       20
     To Place queues                                       21
     Selecting Rides                                       21
     To access the rides purchaser                         21
     to access the quick menu                              22
     to place a ride                                       22
     to place the entrance                                 22
     to place the exit                                     23
     buying shops                                          23
     to purchase a shop                                    23
     park features                                         24
     to purchase park features                             24
     toilet training                                       25
     hiring staff                                          26
     to hire staff                                         26
     to place staff in the park                            26
     overview map                                          27
     query mode                                            27
     park status icon                                      28
     check finances                                        28
     tune-up icons                                         28
     tune-up icons specific to staff are:                  29
     using quick menus                                     30
     user definable rides                                  31
     building a raised track ride                          31
     adjusting height                                      32
     modernising raised track rides                        32
     building a flat track ride                            32
     ride cost                                             33
     open for business                                     33
     to open your theme park either:                       33

     CHAPTER 4: PEOPLE IN THE PARK.
     staff                                                 34
     entertainers                                          34
     handymen                                              34
     mechanics                                             34
     to repair a ride                                      35
     guards                                                35
     zoning staff icons                                    35
     to zone routes:                                       36
     staff-check icons                                     36
     customers                                             36
     thugs                                                 37
     consumer associated reps                              37

     CHAPTER 5: PURCHASER SCREENS
     ride purchaser                                        38
     the ride purchaser tells you:                         38
     purchaser screen icons                                39     shop and side-show purchaser                          39
     side shows                                            40
     staff purchaser                                       41
     on the staff purchaser information includes:          41
     features purchaser                                    41
     information screen                                    42
     ride information screen                               42
     shop information screen                               43
     side-show information                                 45
     staff information screen                              45
     customer information screen                           46
     rankings screen                                       47
     ride rankings                                         47
     staff ranking                                         48
     shop ranking                                          48

     CHAPTER 6: USING THE MENU BAR
     the park menu                                         50
     restart                                               50
     load                                                  50
     save                                                  50
     park open(O)                                          51
     fireworks display(F)                                  51
     quit (ALT ESC)                                        51
     the options menu                                      51
     sound FX                                              51
     music                                                 51
     advisor (FORWARD SLASH)                               51
     auto buy bus (SHIFT B)                                51
     sandbox/sim/business                                  52
     game speed                                            52
     the display menu                                      52
     toggle screen mode (R)                                52
     ride purchaser                                        52
     shop purchaser                                        52
     scenery purchaser                                     52
     staff purchaser                                       52
     shop list(F5)                                         53
     ride lists (f6)                                       53
     staff list(F7)                                        53
     park map                                              53
     bank requester                                        53
     bank statement                                        53
     park status                                           53
     stock screen(CshiftS)                                 53
     research department                                   54
     game                                                  54
     stock market                                          54
     world map(M)                                          54
     make things tiny (SHIFT+T)                            54

     CHAPTER 7: DEVELOPING YOUR PARK.
     park status screen                                    56
     to access the park status screen                      56
     using the park status screen                          56
     thought bubbles                                       57
     stock screen                                          59
     to access the stock screen                            59
     to place an order                                     59
     the research department                               60
     to access the research lab                            60
     funding research                                      61
     research vats                                         61
     leaving research                                      62
     negotiations screen                                   62
     staff negotiations                                    62
     to raise your offer                                   63
     to lower your offer                                   63
     make,break or strike                                  63
     goods negotiations                                    64
     CHAPTER 8: THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
     bank requester screen                                 66
     using the bank requester screen                       67
     stock market                                          69
     buy buy buy                                           70
     sell sell sell                                        70

     Chapter 1

     PAGE 6

     WELCOME TO THEME PARK.

     The whether looked a bit dodgy, threatening rain, but it was
     pleasantly warm. Near perfect conditions for a family visit to the
     THEME PARK, which had recently opened nearby. The TV ads promise
     a perfect day out and thrills galore. The place looked so
     spectacular we just could not resist.

          The bus that took us to the  THEME PARK was huge, with room for 
     a couple of  hundred  people  on  board.  Not  all  crammed  in like 
     sardines either: everyone got a seat,  there  was plenty of leg room 
     and air conditioning kept us  cool.  We seethed through the traffic, 
     and in no time at all arrived at our destination.

          A sign above the gate said  welcome  to bullfrogs world! Even I 
     was exited, and my kids  were  buzzing.  I  bought the tickets-a bit 
     steep for the whole family but all  the rides were free once your in 
     the great metal gates swung open and in we swarmed carried along by
     the enthusiasm of the crowd. And what a sight met our eyes! The
     place was fantastic! Rides galore,shops,souvenirs and all the
     facilities you could possibly wish for.

          A huge roller coaster -THE WHIRLWIND dominated the sky line and
     we followed the signs straight there hoping to be the first in the
     queue, somehow a few others had beaten us to it but we weren't made
     to wait long we climbed aboard and pulled down the safety rail
     me and my wife in front the two kids behind phew! What a ride
     loops, curls,corkscrews and so fast the g-force was to quote the
     kids intense they wanted a second go immediately but i said we
     should try a few of the other rides first and bought them 'i rode
     THE WHIRLWIND T-shirts from  a  nearby  souvenir  shop  to keep them
     happy

          A few rides  later  i   was   getting   peckish  and  the  kids 
     were ravenous there was a burger stand handy so i treated the family 
     to burgers and fries we ate them  in the picnic  area  by a fountain 
     in the cool shade of the trees bliss the food was good but the salty 
     fries soon had us all thirsty  so  it  was out with the wallet again 
     for a few colas and the ice creams

          As I put my litter in the bin i noticed the kids had left their
     rubbish on the grass but before i had a chance to say anything i
     saw a park worker whisk it away still the day would not have been
     complete without  giving   the   kids   a   good   telling  off  and 
     their subsequent tantrums.

          Refreshed and rejuvenated i felt like  a challenge so i chanced 
     my arm on the coconut shy  those  coconuts   must have been glued in 
     because I hit them full on  a   good    few   times  but they didn't 
     budge they must have been glued in then my son  decided to humiliate 
     me by hitting the cans for six in  tin  can ally now it  was my turn 
     to sulk! So i decided to cool  off  in  the saloon while my wife and 
     kids went off exploring  when  I  emerged  i  needed to  answer  the 
     call  of nature and the clear  signposting  meant that I'd  found  a 
     toilet   in  no  time  the  super  toilet  was  so  clean and  user- 
     friendly  i  remember   thinking   i   could   of   stayed there for 
     hours next  i  headed   for  the  fountain,  a   meeting  place  for      separated  families and sure enough the  wife was waiting there with 
     the kids.

          They'd had a wonderful time  in  my  absence, had travelled all 
     over the park by monorail  and  hadn't  even  minded  the  shower of 
     rain because  a  man  dressed  as  a   chicken   was   handing   out 
     umbrellas to protect  them  plus  they  rode  THE   WHIRLWIND for  a 
     second  time  and  it  was even  faster than before  speeded  up for 
     extra thrills.   We  stood  and  watched  a   spectacular  fireworks 
     display  as the sky grew darker and then tired but  happy  made  our 
     way back to the bus all in all the families  day  out  at  bullfrogs 
     world just couldn't have been any better.

          PAGE 8

          THE AIM OF THE GAME.

          Simply put to be the best.   To   make your Theme Park not only 
     the hottest ticket  for  thousands  of   visitors,   but the hottest 
     property on the shares exchange.

               At  the  end  of  every  financial  year,  you  receive  a
     statement on the year end chart rating your Theme Park against forty
     rivals in six categories.

               The categories are :

               Richest Park Owner
               Most Exciting Park
               Most Amenities
               Customer Satisfaction
               Biggest Park
               Most Pleasant Park

               Only when  your  numero  uno  in  each  category  have you 
     achieved your aim of constructing the ultimate Theme Park.

               PAGE 9

               THE MAIN MENU

               Having  successfully  loading   the   game,   the  advisor 
     introduces you to the  world  of  Theme  Park.   To   skip the intro 
     sequence at any point, press SPACE bar.  You  arrive  at  the  title 
     screen: press SPACE bar again, and you are asked to type out  a nick 
     name.  Do so by using the key  board and confirm with a left  click, 
     to the tick icon.  The main menu appears.

               To select a main  menu   option,   highlight   it with the 
     cursor and left click or press the relevant key.

               The main menu options are :

               F1 - Set up new Theme Park : left click here for the 'Your 
     Player Details Screen'

               F2 - Load Game : a   left   click   bring  up  a save game 
     window to choose which  park  to   re-open,   high  light  with  the 
     cursor and left click.  Press ESCAPE to  return  to  the  main  menu 
     without loading a game.

               F3 - Continue Game :  Returns   you  to  the current Theme 
     Park the last time you saved.

               F4 - See Intro : So impressed, you  want to watch it again 
     ???  I don't blame you!

               F5 -  See  credits  :  Find   out   the   names  of  those 
     responsible for Theme Park.
               F6 - Quit to dos  -  quits  the  main  menu  and takes you 
     to the operating system.


               CHAPTER 2

               PAGE 10

               DESIGNING A NEW THEME PARK

               Highlight F1 - Set up new  Theme   Park and left click for 
     the Your Players Details Screen.

               YOUR PLAYER DETAILS

               Give the park some personality  and   set   up the kind of 
     game that you want to play on the your players details screen.

               Use the mouse to highlight   a   category  with the cursor 
     and left click.  Alternatively, use  the  cursor  keys  to  move  up 
     and down the list and left/right to select the particular options.

               YOUR PLAYER DETAILS ARE:

               Your name - type in your name using the keyboard

               Your nickname  -  Type  in  something  witty,  abusive, or 
     filthy using the keyboard to a  maximum  of  eight characters.  This 
     nickname become essential when restoring saved  games - it acts like 
     a password and you are unable to restore a game without it.

               Age -  Lie  if  you  like,   but   you  are  only  kidding 
     yourself. Enter your age on the keyboard.

               Sex - The options are  Male  or  Female.   So no surprises 
     there!  Highlight one or the other  with  the  cursor  keys, or left 
     click the appropriate box.

               Park Name - Type in nothing  here  and  your park is known 
     as Bull Frogs World, but I'm sure  you  can come up with something a 
     little more imaginative  than  that.   Enter  the  park  name on the 
     keyboard.  Use back space to correct incorrect characters.

               Sim Level  -  Choose  from   Sand   Box,   Sim  and  Full. 
     Highlight the desired level of play  with  the cursor, and then left 
     click.

               Sand Box - Level  is  very   much   for beginners. You can 
     enjoy all the fun of  the   fair   and  design  a  park  without the 
     stresses, strains and complications  that  come  from  visits to the 
     bank requester screen.  There's  no  need  for  research,  and  your 
     shops cannot run out of stock,  so  there's  no  need  to  visit the 
     stock screen.  However, you may still  have  to take out a loan, and 
     keep  one  eye  on  your  bank  balance  to  avoid  going  bankrupt. 
     Needless  to say, you are missing out on a awful lot of Theme Park's 
     best features.

               Sim Level -  Is   intermediary.    You   are   involved in 
     research to develop new   park   facilities,   and  the  negotiation 
     screen  pop  up  periodically.   However  if  you  visit  the  stock 
     screen and stock market screen  you'll  find that these features are 
     not available to you.

               Full Level - Only on  Full  level   do  you get to utilise 
     all Theme Parks options.   Now   you   are   not  only  expected  to 
     research  new facilities, but purchase stocks for  shops  and shares 
     in other parks. Your  responsible  for  every financial transaction. 
     And rival operators can have a say in you  success  on  full  level. 
     Your playing the big boys.
               Park visitors - choose a   mood   from  happy, average and 
     fussy by  left  clicking  the  appropriate  box.    The  fussier you 
     customers become, the harder it  is  to  part  them from their cash. 
     This only effects your Theme  Park's  visitors for  the  first  four 
     years in operation, after which is all down to you.

               Start Level - choose between  easy, medium and hard.  This 
     decides the amount of  money   you   begin  with.   On  easy  level, 
     200,000 is deposited in  your  current  account,  choose medium, and 
     150,000 is added to your coffers,  while  on hard  level,  you've  a 
     mere 100,000 to play with.

               Opponents - none, four, ten and  all are the options here. 
     If you are playing  in  glorious  isolation   the   game losses it's 
     competitive  element.  The   more   rival   Theme   Parks  that  are 
     out  there, the trickier it gets  to  be best in all six categories, 
     and someone might just buy the park out from under you.

               Opponents  level  -  this   decides  how  aggressive  your 
     opponents are.  Choose between easy, medium  and hard.  You can make 
     life a lot simpler if  you  hamper  the  opposition  and  make  them 
     easy,  but  for a real  challenge  make  all the opposing Theme Park 
     rock hard.

               First Game - no or  yes.    If  you  select  Yes,  you are 
     given a tutorial by the park  advisor  when  you  enter  the park to 
     help get you started (see tutorial).

               When you finished  entering   your   player  details, left 
     click the tick icon for a look at the world map.

               PAGE 12

               WHERE IN THE WORLD

               On the world map available,  sites   are marked as yellow. 
     Re dots mark locations you  cannot   currently  afford,  while sites 
     occupied by other Theme Park owners are  marked  in  blue.   At  the 
     bottom of the screen is your bank balance. Highlight a location with 
     the cursor, the name and cost  of establishing a  park  appear above 
     your bank balance.  No surprising that it  cost nothing to  set up a 
     park in Britain.  This is your  only option when first playing Theme 
     Park.
               Left click a red or yellow   dot  for  details of the site 
     and the country in which it  is  located  (see site details screen). 
     Left click a blue dot to look at parks  already  in existence on the 
     park details screen.
               When you find a site   you   are  happy  with,  left click 
     BY LAND.  This location appears on the  map as a  golf ball about to 
     be teed off.  To leave the world map for the park itself, left click 
     the tick icon.

               PAGE 13

               SITE DETAILS SCREEN

               This lists  all  the  factors   which   could   affect the 
     success  of  a  Theme  Park.     Built   on   a   particular   site, 
     specifically population economy and climate :

               COST - How big a  bite  of  your  bank balance of you bank
     balance is this location going to take?

               LOCAL POPULATION -  The   number   of  potential customers 
     that your Theme Park has to draw from in the early stages.

               MEDIUM POPULATION -  Further  down   the   line,  a medium 
     sized park could attract visitors from further afield.
               LONG POPULATION - When  your   park   has  grown  in size, 
     and  it's  reputation  has  become   international  the   number  of 
     potential customers grows to the figure found here.

               INFLATION RATE - from 0  to   100  percent,  the lower the 
     better, because an inflation rate  of  100  percent  means that your 
     overheads will double annually.

               INTEREST RATE  -  from  0  to  100  percent,  as  with the
     inflation rate, you want  to  keep  this  as  low  or  end up paying
     through the nose for every penny you borrow.

               ECONOMY - rich, poor or  medium.   This indicates how much
     cash customers have to spend in  your  Theme Park, and the worse the
     economy, the less disposable income is available.

               PAGE 14

               TAX FREE PERIOD YEAR - the length of time you can run your
     park without paying land tax.

               LAND TAX - the amount  you  pay  is calculated by applying
     this rate the area of land  your  park  occupies, so keep it compact
     and you'll pay less tax.

               WEATHER -  rainy,  sunny,  stormy  etc.   The  better  the
     weather the more likely the people are to venture out of there homes
     and into your park.

               TERRAIN - you have to build around rocks and other natural
     obstacles, so choose a site that is nice and flat if possible.

               WHO - The name of the park owner.

               TO LEAVE THE SITE DETAILS SCREEN

               Having digested all the  information  on  the site details
     screen, left click the buy land  icon  to accept the site.  The park
     details appear on the screen (see park details screen).
               If you are not happy with a site, left click the tick icon
     to return to the world map, and check out another location.

               PAGE 15

               PARK DETAILS SCREEN

               Check out your own park  details  and  those of rival park
     owners at the park details screen.  This tells you :

               PLAYER NAME - that's you (or your opponent) that is.

               BALANCE - as in bank,  the  amount  of money available for
     development for the site.

               PERSONALITY - rated on a scale of 0 to 100.

               VENDETTA - are  there  any  established  rivalries between
     park owners?  If you  find  your  own  name  here,  be sure to guard
     against unfriendly take over bids.

               REPUTATION - good, bad, indifferent. If this is your first
     Theme Park, you  haven't  got  one,  but  any  subsequent  parks are
     measured against previous efforts.

               NUMBER OF RIDES - check up  on  how  many rides are in the
     park by looking here.

               NUMBER OF SHOPS - see above

               NUMBER OF STAFF - see above the above
               NUMBER OF PEOPLE - how popular are your Theme Park rivals?
     As for any new park,  until  the  main  gates are thrown open, there
     will more visitors to a plague pit.

               TO LEAVE THE PARK DETAILS SCREEN :

               When you've taken it all in,  left click the tick icon and
     it's back to the world map!
               Once you've bought a new park, left click the tick icon at
     the world map, and you're in the park.

               PAGE 16

               TUTORIAL

               When completing your player details, you are asked whether
     this is your first time  you've  played  Theme Park (see your player
     details).  Choose yes for a tutorial  from the park advisor when you
     arrive at the park screen.

               FOLLOWING THE TUTORIAL:

               The park advisor guides you  through  the tutorial step by
     step.  First of all, you are shown how to lay paths.
               Next, place the first  ride.   This  is the bouncy castle.
     Place the entrance and exit  icons  as  instructed.  Now connect the
     ride to the network of paths, you've created with a barrier.
               You must now choose  a  location  for  a  ice cream stand.
     Again the park advisor  instructs  you  how  to  do this.  Then hire
     three members of staff -

               A Shark Man
               Handy Man
               Mechanic

               And place them in the park as instructed.
               You  can  now  continue  to  build  you  park  from  here.
     Remember, every thing used in  the  tutorial, including staff wages,
     has to be paid for, like all your future purchases.
               To skip the tutorial,  choose  no  when asked whether it's
     the first time you've played at the YOUR PLAYER DETAILS SCREEN.

               CHAPTER THREE

               IN THE PARK

               PAGE 18

               So you've chosen a location and  you are in the park.  The
     site is currently a flat lot of nothing with a wall around it, and a
     main gate, you've a  lot  of  work  to  do  before  it is the worlds
     ultimate tourist attraction.

               USING THE ICON BAR

               The icons bar at the bottom  of  the  screen is the key to
     creating your Theme Park.  From left to right the icons are for :

               Paths
               Queues
               Rides
               Shops
               Park Features
               Staff
               Overview Map
               Query
               Park Status
               Bank Requester Screens
               PAGE 19

               LAYING PATHS

               Before you can do anything else  you must lay paths around
     the park for visitors to  walk  along.   Theme Parks little visitors
     always follows paths and this is  the  only way customers can access
     rides and shops.  They only go  on  the  grass when they are looking
     for the way out (and complain if they cannot find it).
               Note paths cannot be laid  where natural obstacles such as
     rocks and water block the way.
               Left click the paths icon  to lay plain ordinary concrete.
     The cursor becomes a trowel.
               Right click for  the  paths  menu  and  choose between the
     concrete and one way  paths  or  sign  posts.   The  latter two cost
     extra, but you don't need these  until  later in the game, when vast
     numbers of punters need  clear  directions,  so  save  your money at
     first.
               When you select one way paths  the cursor becomes a arrow.
     To lay a one way path, left  click  a path square and then orientate
     the arrow in your preferred direction with additional left clicks.
               Left click the sign post  icon  in  the paths menu and the
     icon attaches itself to the cursor.   The sign post flashes until it
     is given a sense of direction, which  you can do by left clicking on
     a shop, ride or feature.  Now move  the post to the desired position
     in the park and place it with a  left click : wherever it is placed,
     the sign post is the chosen amenity.  Left click again to rotate the
     sign and lead customers to a  destination  via a different route, so
     as to pass additional  shops  and  rides,  they might otherwise have
     missed.
               Note, remember to re-select  normal  paths  from the paths
     menu after selecting one way or sign posts.

               PAGE 20

               TO LAY PATHS :

               The trowel, has a path  square  attached left click to lay
     single squares of concrete, alternatively,  click  and hold the left
     mouse button, and then scroll  around  the  park with the trowel.  A
     path square is laid wherever the trowel does it's digging.
               Double left click a path square to select and active icon,
     shops, staff etc. and pick up the trowel for laying paths again.
               The path square disappears if  you  scroll over an area of
     the park where you can't lay a path.
               A  border  of  flowers   grows   around   paths  once  the
     disturbance of the digging has stopped.

               TO REMOVE PATHS :

               To remove a  path  square,  highlight  it  with the trowel
     cursor and right click.  You cannot  delete the original area of the
     path around the main gate.
               Note, paths are the  only  items  you pay for immediately.
     You won't get the cost  of  any  ride,  shop or staff purchases from
     deducted from your budget until the end of each month.

               FORMING A QUEUE :

               The trill hungry public are  unable to sample the delights
     of a ride unless they can  form  an orderly queue for it.  Customers
     can still access a ride which isn't  connected to a ride by a queue.
     But they do so only one at a time but the ride isn't used to maximum
     efficiency.

               TO PLACE QUEUES :

               Highlight a queue with a left click.
               Now connect the entrance to  your  chosen ride to the path
     (see selecting rides).  Queues can be  placed or removed just as you     would a path.  Hold down the left mouse button and scroll around the
     screen to place the queue.   Highlight  and  right click to remove a
     section of the queue.
               Note, a queue must always  be  placed  from  a path to the
     start of a ride.

               SELECTING RIDES :

               Only four of Theme Parks rides  are available at the start
     of the game.  In full and sim modes, you can only add to a number of
     rides available by investing  in  research  (see research dept).  At
     sand box level, more rides are added to  the list at the end of each
     financial year.
               There are two ways  to  purchase  rides,  through the ride
     purchaser screen, or using the quick menu.

               TO ACCESS RIDE PURCHASER :

               Left click the ride  icon  for  the  ride purchaser screen
     (see purchaser screen)  and  some  in  depth  information  about the
     attractions currently available to you.

               TO ACCESS THE QUICK MENU :

               Alternatively, right click  the  ride  icon  for the quick
     menu.
               Left click an item  from  this  menu  to select your ride.
     Each one has a price  tag.   If  you  don't  have  enough cash for a
     particular ride it has a red  background.  Having mad your decision,
     the quick menu disappears and the  chosen attraction is stuck to the
     cursor like chewing gum to a set of false teeth.

               TO PLACE A RIDE :

               Left click an area of the park large enough to accommodate
     the ride.  You now need to replace the rides entrance and exits.

               TO PLACE THE ENTRANCE :

               Once  a  ride  has  been  positioned,  the  entrance  icon
     appears, moving the mouse lets you move the entrance anywhere around
     the ride, and a left click blocks it in place.  To move the entrance
     again, choose the appropriate icon  from the information screen (see
     information screen).
               You  can  change  the  orientation  of  entrance  of  user
     definable rides (see user definable rides).

               PAGE 23

               TO PLACE THE EXIT :

               The exist is  a  short  flight  of  steps  that takes your
     punters back to terra tirma.   Place  this  as you did the entrance.
     Remember, you must link every  rides  exits  to  a path or when your
     punters leave the ride,  they  become  lost  and  mill around on the
     grass.
               Once the rides entrance  and  exits  have been placed, the
     tune up icons on the far right of the control bar become active (see
     tune up icons for details of there functions).

               BUYING SHOPS :

               Shops fall into three categories  :  food and drink stands
     (for which you must  purchase  stock,  see  stock screens), souvenir
     shops and side shows.  While it's the thrill rides that bring in the
     crowds, you need to keep visitors  happy  (and earn extra bucks!) By
     supplying refreshments, and hopefully  entice  them  into going home
     with a Theme Park souvenir or two into the bargain.

               TO PURCHASE A SHOP :
               Left click the shop  icon  for  the  shop purchaser screen
     (see purchaser screens) and in-depth look at the available shops.
               A right click brings up the quick menu.
               A left click an  item  from  this  menu  to select a shop.
     Each one has a price  tag  :  if  you  can't  afford the chosen shop
     cursor it's icon has a red  background.  Having made your selection,
     the shop menu disappears, leaving you to  place the shop where it is
     likely to attract the most customers.

               PAGE 24

               PARK FEATURES

               What with most pleasant park being among the categories on
     which your Theme Park is judged,  it's  a  good idea to beautify the
     place with trees and fountains.  Plus, the park won't stay beautiful
     for long without proper  toilet  facilities  and  a  clear sign post
     showing people where they are.

               TO PURCHASE PARK FEATURES -

               Left  click  the  park  features  icon  for  the  features
     purchaser screen (see purchaser screen).
               Alternatively, right  click  the  park  features  icon for
     quick menu.
               Left click an item  from  this  menu,  and then left click
     once on the park screen for  every  tree  you want planting.  If you
     are putting up an fence or digging  a lake, hold down the left mouse
     button and scroll through the park.
               Right click to remove  any  pease  of  scenery, fencing or
     facility placed in error.

               PAGE 25

               TOILET TRAINING

               With all the food and drink you hope to sell, visitors are
     going to need somewhere  they  can  off-load  any excess.  Forget to
     place toilets around your Theme  Park  and  things  are going to get
     very messy or visitors will head home the moment nature calls.
               The only lavatory available from the park features list at
     first is an old, wooden out-house: not the nicest place in the world
     to park your back side.  Customers  are rather tentative about using
     these, and a queue forms outside, while the occupant gingerly places
     a protective layer of toilet paper between flesh and toilet seat.
               Woe betide the Theme Park owner  who forgets to have these
     toilets cleaned.  It isn't long before an out-house, with it's dodgy
     drainage and doubtful  flushing  mechanism,  stinks  to high heaven.
     And if placed up wind of the  queasy stomachs that often emerge from
     the more thrilling rides,  it's  a  recipe  for disaster.  First one
     punter losing his lunge, and a  chain chunder rips through the crown
     like wild fire, before long your park's going to be about as popular
     euro Disney.
               You can  of  course  combat  this  by  keeping  out houses
     maintained.  Send handy men to clean  them regularly, and should the
     worst happen, and vomit begin to flow, make sure there are plenty of
     staff to mop it up.
               Inject some cash  into  up-grading  park  features  in the
     research lab  (see  research  dept.)  and  soon  your  customers are
     relaxing on  the  luxurious  high  tech.  super  toilet.   This self
     cleaning  lavatory,  it  does  everything,  far  from  throwing  up,
     customers are more likely to move in.

               PAGE 26

               HIRING STAFF

               Think you can run this  park alone?  Think again!  There's
     no way you can other  the  levels  of  service and satisfaction that     your paying customers  expect  without  staff.   Admittedly,  in the
     early stages you may be able to  get away with a skeleton staff, but
     as the litter begins to  mount,  and  the  hundreds of pounding feet
     take there toll on the rides.  You'd  better have someone to pick up
     the pieces!
               You  can  hire  entertainers,  handy  men,  mechanics  and
     guards.  Each have specific duties  (for  an explanation, see people
     in park).  But there all there to help things run smoothly.

               TO HIRE STAFF -

               Left click the staff  icon  for  the staff purchase screen
     (see purchaser screens).
               Alternatively, you right  click  the  staff  icon  for the
     quick menu.

               TO PLACE STAFF IN THE PARK -

               Left click a member  of  staff  from  the quick menu, they
     become attached to the cursor.  Next,  left  click  once on the park
     screen for every worker in that category you wish to employ.
               Note, the number by  each  staff  number  is there monthly
     wage, so remember that staff are an on going expense.

               PAGE 27

               OVERVIEW MAP

               A left click to the  icon  brings  up an over-head view of
     the entire park.  Use the mouse  to  move the highlighted box on the
     map, then left click.  You  return  to  the  park screen at this new
     location.

               QUERY MODE -

               Left click  the  query  icon  and  the  cursor  becomes  a
     question mark.  Move the cursor over any ride, shop or staff member,
     and left click to  activate  the  turn  up  icons.  Depending on the
     object that has been  queried  not  all  the  tune  up icons will be
     active (see tune up icons).
               Highlight a customer in  query  mode  and a thought bubble
     appears indicating there current state of  mind.  Left click and the
     thought bubble becomes permanent  (for  more  on thought bubbles and
     there meaning see people in the park).
               When ever anything is  queried,  it's  name appears in the
     text bar beneath the tune up icons.

               PAGE 28

               Park Status Icon

               The park status smiley face reflects  the mood of the park
     visitors and the shaded area of the box below indicates how full the
     next bus to  arrive  at  the  park  will  be.   The  think  red line
     spreading from the bottom right of  the  mood  box shows the area of
     the park occupied by  the  paying  public.   When  the  whole box is
     filled in red, your parks full to bursting.

               Left click the Park Status icon for the Park Status screen
     (see Using The Park Status Screen).

               CHECK FINANCES

               Short on cash  and  want  to  get  a  bank  loan?  Or just
     interested in the current state of your Theme Park's finances?  LEFT
     CLICK this icon and  the  Bank  Requester  screen  appears (see Bank
     Requester Screen).

               The figure beneath the icon  is your current bank balance.
     At the end of  every  calendar  month  this  figure is updated, with     money coming in shown in black and deductions displayed in red.

               Right Click the Bank Requester icon for the Bank Statement
     screen (see Bank Statement)

               PAGE 29

               TUNE UP ICONS

               When an object in the park  has  been queried, the Tune Up
     Icons on the far right of the  Icon Bar are activated.  These update
     you on the status of a ride,  shop  or  member of staff and left you
     fine tune their performance.

     Information this is the only Tune  Up  Icon  for shops, and the only
     one common to rides,  shops  and  staff.   Left  Click  here for the
     relevant information screen (see  Information  Screens).  This gives
     you vital facts about the status  of  any park utility, and lets you
     alter certain key factors to maximum profitability.

     Tune Up Icons specific to rides are, from left to right -

     Timer - the whole hour glass is filled in red.  Right Click the icon
     and the sands of time begin to  run  out, reducing the length of the
     ride with each click.  Left Click to increase the length of the ride
     again when the queue has subsided.

     Spanner Icon - indicates how safe  the  ride is.  The higher the red
     bar, the more dangerous the ride.  The  state of repair of a ride is
     also affected by the numbers using it and the ride speed.

     Rider icon - adjust the number of  punters  you can cram onto a ride
     before it starts.  Left Click increases  the number of people on the
     ride, right click decreases it when safety levels are exceeded.

     On/Off - turn a ride  on  and  off  wit  a  click  to this icon with
     either mouse button.  The light  changes  from  green  to red when a
     ride has been stopped.  The light  is  replaced by a mechanic's head
     when a ride is under repair.

     Ride Speed - right  clicks  increase  the  revolutions per minute of
     your rides.  If things become  a  little  too  exciting for the ride
     users and your park is in danger of drowning beneath a sea of vomit,
     retard the ride's speed with  left  click  to this icon.  Changes to
     ride speed take immediate effect on the Park Screen.

     Tune Up icons specific to staff are -

     Pincer Icon - left  click  here  and  the  cursor  becomes  a set of
     pincers with  the  queried  staff  members  attached.   You  can now
     reposition them anywhere in the Park Screen with a left click.

     Zone Route Icons - set  a  specific  route  for a handyman to patrol
     (see Zoning Staff Icons).

     Repair Icon - for  mechanics  only.  Left  Click  this and then left
     click ride in need of some attention to send the queried mechanic to
     work.

               PAGE 30

               USING QUICK MENUS

               There are  quick  menus  for  paths,  rides,  shops,  park
     features and staff.  Right Click  their  icon  from the Icon Bar for
     the relevant quick menu.
               All the amenities available  to  you  in that category are
     displayed, along with the  cost  of  purchase.   As you highlight an
     amenity with the cursor its name appears  at the top of the menu.  A
     left click selects the ride, shop, feature  or member of staff to be     placed, and simultaneously closes the menu.
               Resize a quick menu by holding  down the left mouse button
     on the bottom right hand corner,  and  then dragging the menu out to
     the desired size.  To bring the menu  up to maximum size, left click
     the maximum icon top right.  To take  the menu down to minimum size,
     left click the minimise  icon  adjusted  to  maximise icon.  You can
     close a menu  without  selecting  an  amenity  by  left clicking the
     menu's top left hand corner.

               PAGE 31

               USER DEFINABLE RIDES

               With user definable  rides,  you  get  to  design the ride
     yourself, rather than just place  it  in  the Theme Park.  There are
     two kinds of User Definable rides.  Raised track and flat track, and
     they're built using different methods.

               BUILDING A RAISED TRACK RIDE -

               Raised track rides are  the  Roller  Coaster, Monorail and
     Big Dipper, all marked on  the  Quick  Menu by carriage icons.  Left
     Click the icon in the quick menu  and  the first 5 sections of track
     appear, complete with entrance booth.  A left click locks this first
     section in place.

               NOTE - You can't raise  or  lower  the first pieces of any
     user definable ride.

               Now scroll around the  park  and  lay  down the track with
     Left Clicks, almost as if  you  were  laying a path.  Create hairpin
     bends or gentle  curves  as  you  see  fit  until  you  complete the
     circuit.  Remove any rogue pieces of  track  that are heading in the
     wrong direction with Right Clicks.

               NOTE - if the Year  End screen interrupts the construction
     of a Raised Track ride, you must access the Ride Purchaser screen to
     complete a circuit of  track.   Select  the  Track  icon with a Left
     Click, and when the actions returns  to  the Park Screen you're then
     able to finish off your ride.

               PAGE 32

               Adjusting Height

               You can adjust the height  of  the  Roller Coaster and Big
     Dipper when a circuit has been completed.   Left Click the base of a
     section of track to elevate it  one  increment, and continue to Left
     Click until it reaches the desired altitude.

               Right Click the base of a section a track to reduce height
               one increment at a  time.   A  right  click  at the lowest
               level removes that section altogether.

               NOTE - you can't adjust the height of the monorail.

               MODERNISING RAISED TRACK RIDES -

               To adjust the height of the  Roller Coaster and Big Dipper
     after opening, you need to first stop the ride using the appropriate
     Tune Up icon.  You can also Research upgrades for the Roller Coaster
     and Big Dipper, but again  must  stop  the  ride  before you can add
     them.

               Add-ons include  loops  and  cork  screws  for  the Roller
     Coaster and a water splash  for  the  Big  Dipper.  When add-ons are
     complete, they become available from the Quick Menu.  Left Click its
     icon, and then move the  pointer  over  the  ride.  When you reach a
     section of  a  ride  that  can  accommodate  the  add-ons,  its icon
     appears.  Now simply Left Click.
               BUILDING A FLAT TRACK RIDE -

               The flat track rides are  the  Rubber  Tubing and the Race
     Car ride, which have their  own  icons.   Right click the Rides Icon
     for the Quick Menu and select  the  desired ride.  When completing a
     circuit of track, you'll notice that the entrance does not come with
     the first section.  You must complete  a  circuit and then return to
     the Ride Purchase and select the Ride icon.  Having Left Clicked the
     Tick icon, action returns to the  Park  Screen and you can place the
     entrance booths as normal.

               NOTE - when connecting  any  User  Definable  rides to the
     paths network, it's important to  remember  that the entrance to the
     rides is on the right, and the exit the left - you don't want people
     walking into one  another  as  they  try  to  get  on  and  off your
     expensive new star attraction!

               RIDE COST -

               The cost of User  Definable  rides is calculated according
     to the number of sections of track used to complete the circuit, and
     the height to which the track is elevated.

               The current cost of the ride  is displayed in the text bar
     beneath the tune up icons.  Keep an eye on this figure and make sure
     you have the budget to cover it.  Only when you open the ride to the
     public is the final price  fixed.   So  you  can  add and take away,
     raise and lower sections of  track  to  your  heart's desire but are
     changed only for the final number used in the ride.

               OPEN FOR BUSINESS

               When your rides, shops and  other  amenities are ready and
     you want to start making  some  money,  open  the  park and left the
     people flood in.

               TO OPEN YOUR THEME PARK

               Left click the park  entrance  (in  Query or pointer modes
     only.) Or press O on the keyboard.  Press O again to clock the gates
     or use the park menu in the menu  bar  at the top of the screen (see
     using the menu bar.)

               TO PAUSE THE GAME

               Press P

               PAGE 34

               CHAPTER 4

               PEOPLE IN THE PARK.
     The people that swarm around  your  THEME  PARK are divided into two
     basic groups:
     staff and customers. There's  one  vital  difference between the two
     you pay for one, the other pays you.

               STAFF
     Staff are divided into four categories

               ENTERTAINERS.
               HANDYMEN.
               MECHANICS.
               GUARDS.

               ENTERTAINERS.
     These are Teddy man, Shark man,  Squid  man, Strong man, Chicken man 
     and Rhino man. It must be sheer hell inside those suits and not easy 
     to keep smiling, but that's exactly what there job entails. The more      entertainers you have, the more enjoyment customers get  from  their 
     visit-kids especially love them.

               HANDYMEN.
     These are the guys who keep the  park tidy. If you're after the most 
     attractive park award they mow  the  grass,  and keep the place from 
     being labelled a  health  hazard  by  picking  up litter. Crucially, 
     handymen also keep the  toilets  spick  and  span  and fit for human 
     occupation.

               MECHANICS.
     When a ride breaks down, it is going to become a danger unless it is 
     fixed by a mechanic.  They  are   responsible  for  the  maintenance 
     of all the  rides,  cordon  of  any  sub-standard  attraction before 
     setting off to work fixing it. Blow torch in hand.

               PAGE 35

     Fail to have enough mechanics and  your  park soon gets a reputation 
     for being unreliable, thus damaging  the  visitor  numbers  and gate 
     receipts. Mechanics can  be  difficult  to  motivate into responding 
     quickly and are often  at  the  centre  of any  industrial  dispute, 
     but  they're  essential  to the smooth running of your THEME PARK.

               TO REPAIR A RIDE:
     Query a mechanic and left  click  the  repair  icon from the tune up 
     icons: the cursor becomes a spanner.  Now  left  click  again on the 
     broken ride and watch as a  highly skilled mechanic rushes to repair 
     it. You can also query the ride  itself, then left click the spanner 
     icon from the ride tune-up icons.

               GUARDS.
     You may think that everything  is  going  to  sweetness and light in 
     your  THEME PARK,  but  think   again.   If  your  lucky  enough  to 
     be  so successful  that  customers  pour  in,  you're  going to need 
     someone to  take  care  of  crowd  control,  re-directing  your lost 
     visitors onto the right  path.   If  you're  unlucky and attract the 
     wrong crowd, these are  the  guys  responsible for forcibly removing 
     trouble makers from your park.

               ZONING STAFF ICONS.
     You can leave your handymen to mender around the park willy-nilly,
     but don't be surprised if they're not where you want them to be at
     a some crucial time. Instead, zone the routes patrolled by handymen
     to make the most of the money your paying them.


               PAGE 35

               TO ZONE ROUTES.
     After employing a new handyman, left click the zone icon from the
     tune-up bar: the place route and cancel route icons appear in the
     tune-up bar. Now left click the place route icon and the zoning
     highlight appears. Highlight additional sections until the required
     route has been covered, and then left click confirm route.
     To undo any zoning either now or later, simply highlight the zoned
     area as above and then left click cancel route.

               STAFF CHECK ICONS.
     Use the staff check icons in the  top  right hand side of the screen 
     to keep an eye on your  employees.   There's  a staff check icon for 
     each category of employee  within  the  park  except for guards, who 
     remain static and cant wander off.  Left click to zoom the park view 
     to the nearest staff member  in  that category, repeated left clicks 
     let you check up on all of them.

               CUSTOMERS.
     The whole point of all this effort is to attract as many customers
     to your park as possible, and to make sure they're having such a
     good time they  don't  notice  how  much  there  spending  on rides,     refreshments  and  souvenirs.   Customers  come  in  all  shapes and 
     sizes, but you  can  alter  the  age  range  of  the  people in your 
     attracted to  your park. The  bigger  and  faster thrill  rides, the 
     more youngsters are going to appear, but  if you make the rides  too 
     death defying, a rabble  of  thrill  Hungary bikers move in.  On the 
     other  hand, if the rides are more  sedate you begin to notice white 
     and walking frames among  the   parks   visitors   (for  details  on 
     adjusting ride speed, see tune  up icons).

               THUGS
     When you see a bike load  of  heavies  heading for the park, prepare 
     for a rough time. They do  everything  possible  to ruin the day for 
     the rest of your customers.  They  pop  balloons,steal  food,beat up 
     entertainers and smash rides. Leave  them  too  long and they get in 
     touch with their  hells  angles  pals  and  before  long,  the parks 
     overrun.  The only way to rid the  park of this nuisance once it has 
     arrived is to hire  some  guards  to  forcibly eject trouble  makers 
     from the park. However it is  no  good stationing guards at the park 
     entrance, as they can only be  thrown  out after they have committed 
     an offence.


               CONSUMER ASSOCIATION REPS (BASTARD'S A BIT LIKE F.A.S.T.)
     If you're park is being developing  a  bad reputation, whether it be 
     for highprices or poor  quality,  spies  from a consumer association 
     infiltrate to check the place out.  They  can  be spotted by a sharp 
     eyed park owner by the  official  clipboards.  They refer to as they 
     exit every. To beat the rap make  sure  all the shops and rides they 
     use are reasonably priced and  in  perfect  working order.  That way 
     they eventually leave the park satisfied.

     For information on  recognising  and  responding  to  your customers 
     demands, see Using The Park Status Screen.


               PAGE 38

               CHAPTER 5

               PURCHASER SCREEN


     There are  Purchaser  Screens  for  Rides,  Shops,  Staff  and  Park 
     Features.
     Left-Click the relevant Control Bar  icon,  or  access the Park Menu 
     (see
     Park Menu) to bring up Purchaser Screens.


               RIDE PURCHASER

     For detailed information on a ride, take  time out to study the Ride 
     Purchaser.

     Single Left Clicks to the  Scroll  icons  take  you forward and back 
     through the rides one at a  time.   Left-Click the Fast Scroll icons 
     to zoom to the first and last  rides  in  the list.  The ride in the 
     central window has its details displayed in the text box.

     The Ride Purchaser tells you:

     Ride Name & Version Number.

     Ride Excitement - boost this for  extra  thrills or slow it down and 
     ensure reliability.

     Reliability - the less reliable the  ride,  the more often its going 
     to be shut down for costly repairs.
     Maximum Capacity - the more potential  users, the shorter the period 
     spent queuing and the happier your customers are kept.

     Ride Cost - anything from 2,000 to 200,000.  The cost of a ride is
     deducted at the month end, so if  you  change your mind and remove a 
     ride before a month is up, you don`t pay a penny.

               PURCHASER SCREEN ICONS

     Running down the right hand side of the Purchaser Screen are various 
     icons.  Left-Click takes you to  the  Ranking screen, where all your 
     current rides are ranked and rated (see Rankness Screen).

     X icon - return to Park Screen without picking the selected ride.

     Tick icon - returns you  to  the  Park  Screen  with the chosen ride
     attached to the pointer.


               SHOP AND SIDE-SHOW PURCHASER

     This contains much the same  information  as the Ride Purchaser, and 
     is  operated in exactly  the  same  way.   However, it has different 
     categories of information:

     Type of goods sold - burgers  from  the burger stand, fries from the 
     fries stand, novelties from the novelty shop.  Get the idea?

     If the highlighted shop is a side-show, this category is Addictive.

     Stock price - the cost to you of the stock held by the shop.

     If you`re eyeing a side-show, this  category  tells you the value of 
     the prize.



               PAGE 40

     Sale price - the price at which  you  sell stock to the public.  The 
     difference between these two is your profit margin.

     Stock Control Bar - the amount  of  the  stock currently held by the 
     shop, and how much is on order.

     Cost - what the shop  or  side-shows  will  cost  you to open in the 
     first place.

     For your delectation, here`s a  list  of  all  the shops which could 
     eventually be available after sufficient investment in Research (see 
     Research Department).

     The shops with an asterisk (*)  beside  them need to be restocked at 
     the Stock screen from time to time (see Stock Screen).

     Arcade
     Duck Shoot
     Race Track
     Balloon World
     Gift Shop
     Saloon
     Big Time Burger*
     Gun Shoot
     Steak Restaurant
     Big Time Fries*
     Ice Cream Stall*
     Tin-can Alley
     Coconut Shy
     Novelty Shop
     Toy Land     Coffee Shop
     Pokey Cola*



               SIDE SHOWS

     If you`re not careful you could  end  up paying through the nose for 
     your side-shows.  But in the  finest  traditions of showmanship, you 
     can also cheat and turn them into  nice little earners.  To do this, 
     reduce the  probability  of  a  punter  winning  at  the information 
     screen.  This increases the amount  of  glue keeping the coconuts in 
     their shy, and adds a few nails to the bottom of the cans in tin can 
     ally (see Information Screen).



               PAGE 41


               STAFF PURCHASER

     On the Staff Purchaser information includes:

     Enthusiasm - rated in various categories.  The lower the rating, the 
     more likely your staff are  to  down  tools  and call a strike.  Low 
     wages and  poor  conditions  are  the  factors  which  effect worker 
     morale.

     Cost to hire - present cost  of  hiring  a staff member from a given 
     category, 0-1000.

     Monthly wage - you pay to hire  them, and then they want wages every 
     month too!  Is it  any  wonder  you`re  losing  your  hair - they`re 
     bleeding you dry.


               FEATURES PURCHASER

     Only categorises Park  Features  according  to  the  different costs 
     involved.

     Here's a list of all the Park Features with which you can eventually
     decorate your Theme  Park  (once  enough  money  has  been  spent on 
     Research):

     APPLES TREE
     OAK TREE
     SPOOKY TREE
     BIRCH TREE
     ORANGE TREE
     SUPER TOILET
     BOGGY CRAPPER
     OUTHOUSE
     TROPICAL BUSH
     CASTLE WALL
     PALM TREE
     TREE STUMP FENCE
     CENTRE FOUNTAIN
     PINE TREE/LAMP
     WEEPING TREE
     LAKE
     PRIVET HEDGE
     WHITE FENCE
     LAMP POST
     ROSE BUSH


               INFORMATION SCREENS
     Left click the  information  icon  from  the  tune-up  bar  from the
     relevant information screen appears.  There  are information screens 
     for all the rides, shops, the various toilets, staff and customers.

               RIDE INFORMATION  SCREEN.

     The categories of information available are;

     RIDE COST The amount each park  visitor  has  to cough up to use the
     ride.

     PEOPLE BEEN ON RIDE- The total  number  of park visitors who've used 
     the ride.  If it is  a   popular   item,   it  might be worth buying 
     another one.

     EXCITEMENT A thrill or a bore? Here's where you find out the score.

     RELIABILITY Assess how much work you can get from a ride before it
     needs repair.

               PAGE 43

     RIDE CAPACITY Increase or decrease this as you see fit with left
     clicks to increase and right clicks to decrease.

     The icons on the right of the ride information.

     GO TO ICON -  Left  click  here  to  centre  the  park screen on the
     queried ride.

     RIDE RANKINGS- Left click for  the  ride  rankings screen, where you 
     can compare the performance of  your  parks rides (see ride rankings 
     screen)

     MOVE ENTRANCE ICON-  Reposition  the  entrance  to  a  ride  by left 
     clicking this icon. The view returns  to  the park status, where you 
     can more effectively place the rides entrance and exit.

     TICK ICON- Left click this and it`s back to the park status screen.

               SHOP INFORMATION SCREEN.

     Query a shop and the  tune-up  are  replaced  with a bar showing the 
     volume of stock remaining- the   less   green   on  show,  the lower 
     the stock volume.

     At the shop information screen can find out:

     TYPE OF GOODS SOLD- To be  frank,  it  should be pretty obvious from 
     the name of the shop.

     CUSTOMERS SO  FAR-  Just  how  popular  are  those  burgers,  fries, 
     novelties,etc.

     STOCK SO FAR- When you still  have  some stock, the two figures tell 
     you the number of items and what each cost you. When you're all out, 
     you're just given the unit cost for replacement stock.

     SALE PRICE- Raise or lower the cost to the consumer with left clicks 
     to the right or left arrows.


               PAGE 44

     Food shops also have a  unique  category  which  allows you to alter
     food quality in the quest for greater profits.  These are:


     BIG TIME BURGER- Increase the amount of fat in the burgers to reduce
     your costs. As the burgers are less filling you might benefit from     repeat purchases, or a customer might find them so revolting they
     refuse to buy them on principle.

     BIG TIME FRIES- Pour extra salt onto fries and improve drink sales.

     POKEY COLA- More ice means less  cola  in  the carton and that means 
     less  overheads.

     ICE CREAM STALL- Increase the amount  of  sugar  in the ice cream to 
     attract the kids and keep them coming back for more.

     COFFEE SHOP- Hike up the caffeine in  your coffee to give drinkers a
     buzz and make them move around the park quicker.


     The icons on the right of the shop information screen are:

     GO TO ICON -  Left  click  here  to  centre  the  park screen on the
     queried shop.

     SHOP RANKINGS- Left click for the shop rankings screen, Where you
     can  compare  the  performance  of  all  your  shops  (see  rankings 
     screens).

     X ICON- Return to the park screen without taking into account any
     of the adjustments.

     TICK ICON- Return to the park screen with adjustment intact.


               PAGE 45

               SIDE SHOW INFORMATION SCREEN

     Side shows have separate categories of information.

     ADDICTIVNESS- Will tell you whether  the  punters  are going to come 
     back
     for more.

     WINS/PUNTERS- The number of people who've been winners.

     PROBABILITY OF WINNING- Left click the left or right arrows to
     increase or decrease the probability of winning.

     COST OF  PRIZE-  Combine  with  the  probability  factor  and decide 
     between lots of little wins or a few big wins.

     PRICE PER GAME- A really addictive game can be a nice little earner, 
     especially if you raise  the  price  to  an unacceptable level. Left 
     clicks do the trick.


               STAFF INFORMATION SCREEN

     The categories are:

     MONTHS EMPLOYED- How long has this dead beat been on the payroll.

     MONTHLY WAGE- Adjust this by left clicking the up or down arrows.

               PAGE 46

               The icons on the right are -

               You're fired icon - show ineffectual workers the door, and
     give them a helping boot through it, by left clicking this icon.

               Staff Ranking - left click  for  the Staff Ranking screen,
     where you can compare the performance  of your park's employees (see     Ranking Screens).

               X Icon - a  left  click  here  puts  you  bank on the Park
     Screen, ignoring any changes made.

               Tick icon - left click this  to return to the Park Screen,
     where all adjustments take immediate effect.

               CUSTOMER INFORMATION SCREEN

               At the top  of  the  screen  is  the  (often unflattering)
     customer name.  The  information  available  on  each  punter  is as
     follows :

               Time spent in park - hours,  minutes or days?  The longer,
     the better.

               Number of rides been on  -  if  the  number's to low, it's
     because the rides are tool full or difficult to get to.

               Boredom - this is a  key.   If  there's one place on earth
     you expect to be wide-eyed with  excitement,  it's a Theme Park.  If
     your customers aren't, it's time to act.

               Money remaining - customers  can  arrive  with up to 2,000
     burning a hole in their pocket.   Don't  let them leave with much of
     it remaining!

               Tick Icon - left click this to return to the park screen.

               PAGE 47

               RANKING SCREENS

               Left click the appropriate Ranking icon on the information
     screen for the Ranking screens.

               Ride Ranking

               Here all the rides in your park are listed and rated.

               Ride name - the name of the ride. Duh.

               Users - numbers of punters that have used the ride.

               Ranking - rated according  to  popularity among the park's
     visitors.

               The icons on the right hand  side  of the screen allow you
     to switch between ride, staff and shop information.

               Left click  up  and  down  arrows  to  scroll  through the
     workers according to profitability.

               Left click up and down arrows to scroll through list.

               Left click sort order  to  rank  rides,  shops and workers
     according to profitability.

               Left click the  information  icon  and  it's  back  to the
     information screen.

               Go to icon - highlight a ride, etc. from the list and then
     left click here to jump to this ride on the Park Screen.

               Left click the Tick icon and you're back in the park.

               PAGE 48

               STAFF RANKING
               On the staff ranking screen workers are rated according to

               Working - how hard a member  of staff is working.  As with
     all percentages, it's 0 to 100 percent.

               Wage - however you're  paying  them  you're going to think
     it's too much.

               The icons on the right  of  the Staff Rankings screen work
     as per the ride ranking screen.

               SHOP RANKINGS -

               This ranks shops according to:

               Shop Name - not a tricky one

               Profit - which of your  retails  outlets is making you the
     most money.

               Sales - volume of sales.   If  you're still only turning a
               tiny profit, it's time to increase prices

               Takings - the amount of cash the tills have running up

               The icons on the right of the Shop Rankings screen work as
     per the Ride Ranking screen.

          PAGE 50

          CHAPTER 6

          USING THE MENU BAR.
     The game date is constantly on display in the top left corner of the
     park screen, but the top of the screen also hides the menu bar. To
     activate this, move the cursor to the top of the screen and right
     click. Three menu options are revealed: PARK,OPTIONS and DISPLAY.

          THE PARK MENU.
     With the menu bar activated, left click park for the park menu,
     highlight the chosen option with the cursor and then left click.
     The park menu options are (KEY COMMANDS IN BRACKETS).

          RESTART.
     Got off to a really bad start? Restart the game with this option
     and you're returned to the park screen.

          LOAD.
     Highlight load and the saved game windows opens. Scroll down
     with the mouse to highlight the game you want to resume,0-9.
     Left click and the THEME PARK saved to that slot immediately
     re-opens for business.

          SAVE.
     Highlight save and the saved games window opens. Scroll down with
     the mouse to highlight a vacant slot, 0-9. Left click now and all
     your hard work is safely preserved until later.


          PAGE 51
          PARK OPEN (O).
     Left click park open, the main gates spring aside and the punters
     flood in.

          FIREWORK DISPLAY (F).
     Left click to light up the sky over your THEME PARK with spectacular
     fireworks to pull in the crowds.

          QUIT (ALT-ECS).     To quit the current game and return to the main menu, highlight quit
     and left click.

          THE OPTIONS MENU.

     A tick indicates which options are active.

          SOUND FX
     Scroll down to highlight sound FX and then left click to toggle
     ON or OFF.

          MUSIC

     Scroll down to highlight music  and   then  left  click to toggle ON 
     or OFF.

          ADVISOR (FORWARD SLASH)

     You can turn off the  park   advisor  by  pressing the forward slash 
     on your keyboard.  Alternatively,  highlight  advisor  from the park 
     menu and left click.


          AUTO BUY BUS (SHIFT B).

     Researching facility upgrades provides  you  with  bigger buses, but 
     you still  need  to  purchase    the    new   model   when   it   is 
     made available. Either left click on the old  bus  to  achieve this, 
     or make sure this option is activated.


          PAGE 52

          SAND BOX/SIM/BUSINESS.

     You can switch to an easier  or more difficult version of the game
     at any time. However every time you  drop  a skill category you lose
     10% of your bank account.   And   just  incase  you  were  wondering
     there's no subsequent increase in your  bank account should you move
     up a level.

          GAME SPEED.
     Is all this  frantic  activity   too   much?   Highlight game speed, 
     scroll right and left  click  slow.   Is    the    action  just  not 
     coming thick and  fast  enough  for   you?   Highlight  game  speed, 
     scroll  right  and   left  click  fast  or   even   ultra   if  your 
     feeling  barmy  enough.   To   return   the   game  to normal speed, 
     select normal.

          THE DISPLAY MENU.

     Use this to toggle between  screen   modes   and   access all of the 
     THEME PARKS purchaser screens.

          TOGGLE SCREEN MODE(R).
     Highlight toggle screen  mode  with  the  cursor  and  left click to
     switch between normal and high-resolution modes.

          RIDE PURCHASER.
     Highlight ride purchaser  with   the   cursor   and   left  click to
     switch between normal and high resolution modes.

          SHOP PURCHASER.
     Highlight shop purchaser with   the   cursor   and  left  click. The
     shop purchaser screen appears (see purchaser screen).

          SCENERY PURCHASER.
     Highlight scenery  purchaser  with   the   cursor  and  left  click.
     The scenery purchaser screen appears (see purchaser screens).
          STAFF PURCHASER.
     Got the idea by now?   Highlight   staff  purchaser  with the cursor
     and left click.  Lo   and   behold,    the  staff  purchaser  screen 
     appears  (see purchaser screen).

          SHOP LIST (F5).
     Highlight shop list with the cursor  and   left  click for a look at
     all of your THEME PARKS shops.

          RIDE LIST (F6).
     Highlight ride list and  left  click  for  a  list  of all the parks 
     rides.

          STAFF LIST (F7).
     Highlight staff list and a left  click  brings  up a list of all the 
     good folk you have working for you.

          PARK MAP.
     Want to enjoy the   kind   of   view   a.)A   bird   or  b.) someone 
     looking through the wrong end of  a   telescope   from   a  hot  air 
     balloon would  normally  enjoy?   Highlight  park   map   from   the 
     display  menu  and   give   the  left  mouse  button  a  good click. 
     Alternatively, simply left click the park map icon bar.


          BANK REQUESTER.
     Highlight bank requester and left click. The screen that appears is
     identical  to  the  one   that   pops   up   by  left  clicking  the 
     icon conveniently situated in  the  icon  bar  at  the bottom of the 
     screen.

          BANK STATEMENT.
     You can also access this   by   right   clicking  the bank requester 
     icon from the icon bar.

          PARK STATUS.
     As well as using the icon in  the  icon bar, you can also access the
     park status screen by highlighting this option and left clicking.

          STOCK SCREEN(SHIFT-S).
     Instead of accessing the stock  screen   via  the park status screen 
     you can go direct by   highlighting   this   display   menu   option 
     and the clicking the left mouse button.


          PAGE 54

          RESEARCH DEPARTMENT(N)

     Similar to stock screen in that  a  left click to this option allows 
     you to enter the  research   department  without  opening  the  park 
     status screen.

          GAME

     Left click here to return to the fun on the park screen.

          STOCK MARKET (CONTROL-S)

     To leap straight into  the   action   on  the  stock  market without 
     the necessity of going   through   the  bank   requester.  Highlight 
     this option and left click.

          WORLD MAP(MAP)

     Take a look at the world map by left clicking here.

          MAKE THINGS TINY (SHIFT-T)
     Left click this  option  and  reduce   the  size  of  everything and 
     everyone in you THEME  PARK  to   dillipution    dimensions.  It  is 
     kind  of fun, and  actually  has  a  real useful function,  allowing 
     you  to accurately place  rides,  shops  and   staff   in  the  park 
     when  things have become congested.


          PAGE 56

          CHAPTER 7

          DEVELOPING YOUR PARK.

     It's not as if you haven't enough to go on with at sandbox level
     (see your player details screen). But sim level introduces a whole
     new set of challenges. Now you are required to control the
     development  of  your  park.   Responding   to  consumer  needs  and 
     controlling spending and stock   and   research.  There  are  tricky 
     negotiations to conduct with staff  and  suppliers. Mess this up and 
     it could cost you.

          PARK STATUS SCREEN.

     The park status screen is  the  key to understanding your customers, 
     and  if you don't keep them happy  your park isn't going to last too 
     long.

          TO ACCESS THE PARK STATUS SCREEN.
     Left click the status icon from the icon bar.

          USING THE PARK STATUS SCREEN.
     At the top of the screen  are  two  row's of little peep's. The back 
     row shows the % of happy visitor's,  the % of undecided visitors and 
     the % of unhappy visitors,  with  a  key  for the different colours. 
     When more people  leave  your   park   dissatisfied    than   happy, 
     take  it from me you're in a heap of trouble.
          You're also told the  number  of  people  in  the park, and the 
     number due to arrive on the next bus.

          PAGE 57

          THOUGHT BUBBLES.

     The front row shows the  thoughts   of  the park's visitors. Beneath
     this is a key  to  what   each   thought   bubble  means.  To scroll 
     through the list, left click the up and down arrows.
          Here's a complete listing  of   all   the   thought bubbles and 
     their meaning's -

          FOOD THOUGHT'S; (YELLOW BACKGROUND).

     I am Hungary and thirty.
     I am Hungary.
     I am thirsty.
     I am not Hungary or thirsty.
     I am not Hungary.
     I am not thirsty.

          LOOKING FOR; (GREEN BACKGROUND).

     I am looking for the exit.
     I need to go to the toilet.

          INFO THOUGHT'S; (PALE BLUE BACKGROUND).

     I am still eating something.
     I am still drinking something.
     I have already got that toy.
     I am making my way to the exit.
     I do not have much money left.     I have been on many of your ride's.
     I have been on all of your ride's.
     It is nearly time for me to go home.

          PAGE 58

          BAD THOUGHTS (GREY BACKGROUND).

     The drink is not satisfying enough.
     The food is not satisfying enough.
     The prize is not expensive enough.
     There is not enough chance of winning.
     The price is too high.
     You are making too much profit.
     There is far too much litter around.

          FEELING'S; (WHITE BACKGROUND).

     I am happy.
     I am feeling o.k.
     I am unhappy.
     I am getting tired of walking.
     I am getting bored.

          FULL THOUGHT'S (DARK BLUE BACKGROUND).

     I cannot eat or drink another thing.
     I cannot eat another thing.
     I cannot drink another thing.

     Use the icon's  on  the  right  to   access  the  research and stock 
     screen's with a left click.

          PAGE 59

          STOCK SCREEN.

     Not to be  confused  with  the   stock   market,  this  is where you 
     purchase all the stock for your shop's.

          TO ACCESS THE STOCK SCREEN:

     Open the park status screen.
     Next, left click the stock screen  and  your in the warehouse, ready 
     to fill it to the brim with goodies.

     At the top of the order form are the categories of stock available.
     These are:

          ICE CREAM.

          FRIES.

          COLA.

          BURGERS.

          BEER.

          STEAK.

     The figure under each icon, is   how  much  remaining stock you have 
     in the warehouse in that category.

          TO PLACE AN ORDER:

     Left click the category  of   stock   you   wish  to purchase. Price
     per unit,  amount  in  stock  and  purchase  volume  figures  change 
     accordingly.
     Adjust the volume of  your  order  by  clicking  on the 'PLACE ORDER 
     BAR'.  The number of unit's  in  the  order  and the volume of order 
     figures below the bar update automatically.

     Left click, send order to confirm purchase.

     It takes a little while  for  the   stock  to  arrive. As the pallet 
     is lowered into the warehouse, don't   change  the  order. If you do 
     the current order is cancelled  and  you   are   back to square  one 
     waiting for the new stock to arrive.  By that time you're likely  to 
     have  a  bare cupboard, your customers  might go Hungary, and you're 
     certainly  going  to  miss  an opportunity to make some CASH.

          PAGE 60

     All stock purchases are  placed   in  the  appropriate  section's of
     the warehouse. When the boxes reach  the  ceiling  there  is no more 
     room for more stock in that category. Don't order too much stock  as 
     you are charged for any over  capacity,  and the goods purchased are 
     left  to  rot  if there's no  room   for  them. Remember though that 
     you can increase the  warehouse  capacity by researching in facility 
     upgrade. (SEE RESEARCH DEPARTMENT)

     Note the only item you don't have   to   buy is coffee, of which you
     have an in exhaustible supply.

     When you are done  ordering  stock,   left   click  the tick icon to 
     return to the park screen.

          THE RESEARCH DEPARTMENT.

     The secret lab of your   THEME   PARKS  research department is where 
     you inject much needed cash  into   developing  more  amenities  for 
     your park. New  attractions  are  the   life   blood   of any  THEME 
     PARK,  so  unless you invest you are  soon  going  to fall behind on 
     everything from new toilet's-new shop's-bigger  buses  to  bring the 
     punters to your door.  They're  all   vital  to  the success of your 
     park.

          TO ACCESS THE RESEARCH LAB:

     Left click the research icon on the park status screen. Or press N.

          PAGE 61

          FUNDING RESEARCH.
     Adjust the amount of juice with the research pump.

     Left click along the length of   the   pump  to  alter the amount of 
     red 'stuff' in the tube,  or  click  and   hold   on  the left mouse 
     button or right click on  the  centre  of  the   wheel  to move  the 
     plunger in and out and fine-adjust the amount of juice.

     The figure on the left is   the   amount  per month you're investing
     in research, it changes as you alter the volume of juice.

     The figure on the right is  the  amount  of  dosh you have remaining
     to distribute among the research    vats.    The   two  amounts  are 
     the  same until you actually start dishing out the dosh.

          RESEARCH VATS.

     There are six research vats, all  thirsty  for cash. To divert money
     from the research pump into the  vats,  left  click along the length 
     of the vat, or use the valve.

          THE SIX RESEARCH VATS ARE FOR:

     UPGRADE RIDE- Spend your money on   the   rides  you already have in 
     the park.
     NEW RIDE DESIGN- Invest  in   completely   new   way's  to scare the
     living daylights out of the little peep's in the park.

     NEW SHOP DESIGN- Invest in  completely  new  ways  to get the little
     peep's to part with their cash.

     STAFF TRAINING-  Are  your   staff  sullen?.  Disorganised?  Lacking 
     in motivation?  Improve  the  service  they   offer   to   customers 
     by investing money into this vat.

     NEW FEATURES- Say "goodbye"  to  the   out-house  and "hello" to the 
     super toilet. You can  also  develop  more   exotic   plant  life by 
     putting your cash into this vat.

     UPGRADE FACILITIES-  Enlarge  your  warehouses  to  benefiting  from
     the economics of scale you achieve  by  buying   in  bulk,  and  get 
     some bigger buses to bring in the crowds.

     The research barometer attached to  each   vat   shows how close the
     items being reseached are to   completion.   The   more   white   on 
     show, the nearer you are to a breakthrough in technology.

          PAGE 62

     The research graph beneath  each  tank   fills   up with small white 
     dots. When the whole graph has turned  white,  you have achieved the 
     maximum level of research possible from  that vat. However much more 
     you spend, enhancements have come to an end.

          LEAVING RESEARCH.

          To exit the research department and   leave  the boffins to get 
     on with it. Left click the tick icon and it is back to the park.

          NEGOTIATION SCREENS

     YOU must negotiate with  staff  to   settle industrial disputes, and 
     with suppliers to decide  the  price  of   stock. These negotiations 
     occur when the negotiation screen appears. The more  staff and shops 
     you have the more regularly you   need  to  enter  the  negotiations 
     for  goods and services.

          STAFF NEGOTIATIONS
     As in the real world,   sometimes   all   is  not well between THEME 
     PARK management and the workforce. if  you   park  is  a hit , staff 
     may want  rewarding  for  helping  you   to   build   a   successful 
     business. If staff numbers are  low causing over-work,  anxiety  and 
     stress among the few whose wages you are willing to pay, they strike 
     for better conditions.

     You sit  on  the  left,  across  the   table  from  the  staff union 
     organiser. You both   need   to   shake   hands   over   a  new  pay 
     deal, tentatively extending a hand  across  the  table as  you talk. 
     However, you must come to an  agreement before the biscuits  run out 
     or the negotiations  fail,  putting  the  success  of  your THEME in 
     jeopardy.

          PAGE 63

          TO RAISE YOUR OFFER:

     As  the  seconds  tick  rapidly  away,   left  click  ahead  of  the 
     outstretched hand to raise your offer a single % point at a time.
     Note. Don't raise your offer too quickly   or by too much. The Union
     man can smell fear on you like  cheap  after shave and wont drop the 
     workers pay demands a single penny. Take it slow and don't lose your 
     head.

          TO LOWER YOUR OFFER     Left click behind the out  stretched  hand   to  reduce your offer a 
     point at a time.

          MAKE,BREAK OR STRIKE.

     If you're bargaining is successful, an on screen message informs you
     of how much the  union  took  you  for,   and   the new monthly wage 
     figure for each category of worker.

     Left click now to return to the park screen.

     If you fail  to   make   a   settlement,   the   negotiations failed 
     message appears. Click  the  left  mouse   button   and  the  action 
     returns to the THEME PARK screen,  where your staff  leave  en masse 
     via the main gate and picket  anyone  trying  to  get  in.  Its  not 
     the best publicity for  your park, and when a ride  malfunctions  or 
     the litter mounts up you are going  to start losing money hand  over 
     fist. Far better to make a wage settlement while you can.

          PAGE 64

          GOODS NEGOTIATIONS

     Goods negotiations are performed   in   exactly   the   same  way as
     staff negotiations and the penalties  for  failing   to  make a deal 
     are just as  severe.  Unless  both  parties  leave  the  table happy 
     before the biscuits run out  no  goods  are  delivered to your THEME 
     PARK

     Note Every time you  fail  to  agree  in  your negotiants the asking
     price for goods goes up ten%.

          PAGE 66

          CHAPTER 8

          THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
     Choose full from the YOUR PLAYER DETAILS SCREEN (SEE
     YOUR PLAYER DETAILS)and enter the financial sector. The
     full burden of responsibility for every financial
     transaction made on behalf of the THEME PARK now falls to
     you. This not only means regularly checking your bank
     balance and bank statements but you're also going to
     get your feet wet dealing in shares. There are profit's
     to be made BUT there's also the chance of your precious
     THEME PARK being bought out right under your feet.

          BANK REQUESTER SCREEN

     Regular visits to the bank requester screen, however
     daunting they are essential to the effective financial
     control of your THEME PARK. You may have had unpleasant
     experiences at the bank. Sat in a very uncomfortable
     leather chair while the beady eye of the man who holds
     the purse string bears down on you. But fear not-the
     THEME PARK bank manager is cut from very different
     cloth. He puts you in touch with the financial realities
     in no uncertain terms (and the grimmer the reality, the
     less uncertain the terms become). But he also gives you
     invaluable advice that could save your park and keep you
     solvent

          PAGE 67

          USING THE BANK REQUESTER SCREEN :

               Left click  the  bank  icon  bar  for  the  bank requester 
     screen.

          The graph your park's bank balance, based on over heads     against income. Listed next to the vertical axis of the graphs
     are the different financial results that can be looked at.
     Along the horizontal axis are increasing time periods that allow
     a long term financial forecast 1,12 and 48 years ahead. Left click
     a box to add information to the graph. Left click again to remove
     information.


          BENEATH THE GRAPH ARE LISTED:

          AVAILABLE CASH - The money   you   have instantly available for
     new rides, shop's and staff.

          PARK VALUE - The  market  worth  of  your  THEME  PARK once the 
     current price of all the shares has been evaluated. When you begin
          THEME PARK this figure (not surprisingly) is ZERO

          CURRENT LOAN - Increase the amount you owe the bank with a left
     click to the up icon. If you're feeling a bit flush and park
     profits have increased. You may want to reduce your loan and cut
     down on the interest payments. Left click the down arrow and the
     loan figure drops accordingly.

          PAGE 68

               The icons on the right of the graph are as follows -

          STATEMENT - Left click  here   for   a   look  at the statement
     screen. This doesn't  just  say  your   park's   doing   rubbish, or 
     anything like that,  instead  the  statement  screen   gives  you  a 
     breakdown of  every  financial  transaction    made    during    the 
     previous   month.   It   makes   interesting  reading.   When you've 
     seen enough.  Left  click  the  tick  icon  to  return  to  the bank 
     requester.

          SHARES - Left click  here  to   join   the  bulls  and bears of 
     the financial  market at the stock market (see stock market).

          X ICON - Left  click   here   to   return   to  the park screen 
     without taking any of the adjustments you've made into account.

          TICK  ICON  -  returns  you  to  the  park  screen,  where  any 
     adjustments come into immediate effect.

          PAGE 69

          STOCK MARKET
               At the  stock   market   you   can   buy   shares in other 
     parks, take advantage of  their  success   and    use   any  profits 
     from your share dealings  to  build  up    your   own   park.   Your 
     can  also  defend  your park from unfriendly take over bids by rival 
     park  owners:  if  someone is getting far too large a  chunk of your 
     park, get  bullish  on  the  stock market and see them off.
               Remember, the more shares in   your  park  that get bought 
     up, the more of your hard earned profits are lost paying dividends.
          Left click the shares icon on the bank requester screen to get
     involved in some financial wheeler dealing.
          On the right of the  shares  statement  is  a  list of all park
     owners,the arrow by each name  indicates  whether the share price is 
     rising, falling or  static.  A  yellow  page  means  that shares are 
     available, a white page means  that  you  already own  shares in the 
     park, and a red page  mean's  that  this  owner own's shares in your 
     park.
          Left click  a   name   and   details   are   displayed  on  the 
     shares statement.  The  central   bar    shows    the   park   owner 
     name  and   figures   for  bank   balance,   the   availability   of 
     shares and their  total  value. Above  this on  the  green  half  of 
     the screen are the  names  and   financial details of those  who own 
     shares in this park.  Below   this   on   the   pink  half  of   the      screen are the details of the  shares  owned by the highlighted park 
     owner.

          BUY BUY BUY
     choose an attractive prospect  from   the   list  of  park owners on
     the right and left click  details  appear  on  the  shares statement 
     along with  the  number  of  shares   available   and   their  total 
     value.  If  there  are  shares available left click the  buy  shares 
     icon  once  for  each  share  you want to purchase.
          Notice how your own  details  are  added  to  the list of share 
     owners which is updated if you already have shares in this park.

          SELL SELL SELL
     Chose a name with a  white   page   by   it   from  the  list on the 
     right details appear in the central   box  of  the shares statement. 
     Notice how your own  name  is  listed   along   with the other share 
     holders. In the top half of the screen.
          Left click the sell  shares  icon   and  the  number  and value 
     of shares available  if   this   park   increases.  The  number  and 
     value figures by your own name  in   the  green  half  of the shares 
     screen simultaneously falls,  however  much  needed  funds are being 
     added to your bank balance all the time.
          When you're done with share dealing left click the tick icon
     to return you to the park screen.

                                     
     This doc was typed to death by SGT. Piggy & JUDGE DREDD
                                              

     Hope you enjoy it - it took us for ever!!

     See u in our next doc!!

     23/10/94


