
                            GOBLINS Quick-Dox and Hints 

                  * An RR/INC Trainers/Cheats/Hints Production *


This game is made up of many puzzles which must be solved before
getting to the next level.

You start the game with a scene outside a shack, and 3 goblins
waiting impatiently to get started.  First of all, the only 2 icons you need
to worry about on the bottom of the screen (as far as I know) is the crystal
ball with the goblin face in the middle, and the skull at the bottom-right
corner (or whatever it is).  Clicking on the crystal ball causes the face to
change, by doing this or by just clicking on a goblin, you choose which one
you want to control.  The skull at the bottom-right corner lets you skip
levels with the correct code, quit the game, or something else that I forget.

The Goblins:

Bald and   : This guy can walk around and use magic on things.  To
white beard: move him, just click the right mouse button until the arrow
             is on the screen and click the arrow where you want to move. You
             cannot always move a goblin far distances by just clicking 20
             feet away from him.  Sometimes if the goblin is above a ladder
             you must click below the ladder first to make him climb down,
             then click across the screen.  But I'm getting off the subject,
             you'll notice if you click the right mouse button again you see
             a fist.  Now click the fist on something.  What a magician.
             That's all this guy is good for, changing things with his magic.

Goblin with : This guy walks around, picks up objects, and uses them.  As you
jester hat  : start the game this guy has nothing, so he can't use anything.
              When he picks up a horn for example, he can blow it.  To pick
              something up, click the right mouse button until you see the
              open hand, and click on the object.   To use the object you pick
              up, click the fist on something.  This goblin can only use one
              object at a time.

Goblin with: This goblin walks around, and punches things.  Just click the
helmet     : fist on something to punch it.  Neither this guy nor the white
             bearded magician can pick things up.

That's about all you need to know to get started.
Oh yeah, here are some hints on the levels:

Level 1: Punch the arches, pick up the horn that falls off them.  (I'm not
         going to say who does what since that's obvious).  Then blow the
         horn, use magic on the branch that falls to turn it into a pickaxe.
         i THINK this is all you need to do, when you see GO! youre all done,
         just click on GO! (I think you also need to cast magic on the horn
         again to put it back on the arches)

Level 2: Use magic on every apple to make it big.  Punch all apples EXCEPT
         the one on the far left (if you do you'll fall to your death, try it
         for fun if you want).  Pick up an apple, and use it on the gap in
         the bridge (one of the apples is unusable because of the worm, just
         drop this one and get another one).  Once you have used 2 apples in
         the gap, walk over the gap and use the pickaxe on the cave to get
         the diamond.  Pick up the diamond and GO!  (Remember you have to
         drop these items periodically to get other items, you can always get
         them back)

Level 3: Back outside the shack.  This is tough now.  Use the diamond on the
         front door and GO!

Level 4: Cast magic on the far left maneating plant.  Climb up the plant with
         the punching goblin.  Punch the book that is standing at the far end
         of the table.  Pick up the pot1 (the other pot has a snake in it) and
         use it on the plant on the far right.  (It will eat the fly) Pick up
         diamond again and climb up the book.  Use the diamond on the big
         magician dude and GO!

Level 5: Pick up mask if you want.  Use magic on that cross standing on the
         coffin.  You might have to also punch the cross or something.
         Wait for the evil monster to come out of the coffin and scare away
         the troll on the bottom of the screen.  Then go pick up the mushroom
         he leaves behind and GO!

That's as far as I played before getting tired.  You should get the idea of
the game by now.  I typed all this up from memory so there may be some
mistakes.  If you don't understand something I can be most quickly reached
via Pool of Radiance or the HMS Bounty.  I can be slowly reached via Celerity
Net e-mail.  Have fun with the game.

                                       -Nightwing [RR/INC]

                                       RIPPED OFF THE PC BY [RYGAR]
