                               MINDBENDER

Typed in by CRISTINA of TRILOGY. Edited by PARASITE.


STORY.

The Experiment.
The glider hovered slowly down onto the landing cross. The anti-gravity
convertor came to a stand still humming softly. Gregorius McDuffin
casually opened the cockpit and got out. Of course, he would also have
been able to fly without this wonder of modern science, but it was
really just so much simpler and more convenient like this - he was
after all no spring chicken - and anyway, he didn't have to concentrate
so hard because the computer controlled the flight.

While he was still pondering on the subject of flying, one of his
numeous little servants came running across the courtyard to meet him.
"Everything is ready," he said and bowed. But as McDuffin was in a foul
mood anyway, these were the last words the gnome ever uttered before he
was blasted to pieces by a glittering ball of concentrated energy. "You
forgot the 'sir', gnome," answered McDuffin indignantly. And he marched
off towards the heavy oak door which led to the cellar vaults grinning
to himself. He could also have applied modern technology in this case -
he did, of course, possess a blaster - but conjuring up a ball of
energy out of nowhere was much more impressive. He was, after all,
magician and had to stay true to his trade. Thoughtfully, he opened the
door and went down the steps. He walked through a brightly lit
corridor, at the end of which a heavy steel door barred his way. He
quickly gave the colour code and the door swished open.

At last he was in his sanctum. Gnomes were running around everywhere
making the final preparations. This was where McDuffin carried out his
world-shattering experiments, here in his laboratory, which was fitted
out with the most up-to-date equipment. His aim was to revolutionize
the long-range transmission of hermetic charges of energy. After all,
37% of the total population were reckoned to be magicians, witches,
elves or fairies. And up to now they had all had to come to terms with
the fact that they were only able to transmit their spells in a direct
line, on the beam of light principle.

The result of this was that these rays soon hit some kind of obstacle,
were then extinguished and thereby wasted. But now this was all going
to be changed. McDuffin's fingers ran over the keys of his terminal.
His principle was based on the age-old theorem: "The angle of incidence
is equal to the angle of reflection". To transmit his magic, he used
numerous mirrors, by means of which the rays could be deflected as
desired. Simple. After he had given his gnomes the final instructions,
he sent off a spell through his transmitter, just a harmless weather
spell.

The beam of energy appeared on the testing area immediately and hit the
first mirror. The gnome positioned at the mirror reacted instantly to
McDuffin's commands and tilted the mirror to deflect the beam. He
hadn't made it too easy for himself, of course. He had included some
obstacles, like in real life. Reflecting and absorbing walls, for
example, animals standing in the way, various other magical objects
which were to be found in his castle and, of course a bubbling
cauldrons, without which no spell had effect and which contained
various ingredients to create a successful one.

But it was either a case of sabotage or McDuffin should have kept his
magic to himself, because at the third or fourth mirror the magic beam
stopped working, due to the energy being deflected back into it. Even
when the beam of energy penetrated the security blockade, it changed
direction in the washroom mirror and headed off towards the hydrogen
tanks. There it detonated and blew the whole building - laboratory,
gnomes, glider, magician and all - sky high. McDuffin still thought he
was revolutionizing the transmission of spells.

Ah well, maybe some other time. He had a few more lives left. He owed
this success to his magician's honour, didn't he? The weather spell
worked really well. It poured with rain.

HOW TO PLAY.
After the preview and the title, the main menu comprising of the
following options, appears on the screen:

1.  Name/Team
2.  Level
3.  Hall Of Fame
4.  Level Creator
5.  Info Screen
6.  Start Game
7.  One Player/Two Players

These options can be selected by pressing the button on the mouse and
are explained below:

1.  Name/Team.
This should be selected after the game has started in order to select a
player's name if the game has already been played under a certain name.
This has been saved and can be selected by pressing the button on the
mouse. If this is the first time you are playing, or should you wish to
play under a new name, one of the ten names shown, at the beginning all
referred to as "NO NAME", can be changed by selecting "ENTER NEW NAME",
selecting the name to be changed by giving the new name. The player's
name is also connected with the highest skill level limit. At the
beginning of the game or after changing the name, the limitis set at
skill level 0. When you have achieved the pre-defined skill level
successfully, the level is raised automatically and play can continue.
But you don't always have to start at the lowest level. You can start
at the level you last reached. You can select your skill level as
follows:

2.  Level.
By moving between the symbols (-) and (+), you can set the desired
skill level. You can set the skill level limit in advance. Independent
of this skill limit, you can select levels from 50 upwards by switching
back and forth between 0 and 50 with the field next to "2". This means
that from level 50 on you can create your own skill levels.

3.  Hall Of Fame.
Shows the high score list at the level being played, which has been
saved on the diskette.

4.  Level Creator.
By means of the level creator, levels can be designed and created
according to your own ideas. All the elements involved in the game
(figures, symbols, etc.), whose function is described below, can be
selected (by using the mouse) and used in the play area. The left
button on the mouse introduces an element, the right one clears a
space. "CLEAR" clears the whole screen. "EXIT" means you are leaving
the editor. In the case of "CLEAR" and "EXIT", you are asked to confirm
your command as to whether the space/screen is to be cleared or not, or
wherher the old level is to be replaced by a new one. In the latter
case you can also set a time limit for playing at the selected skill
level.

5.  Info Screen.
This option presents an overview of the game elements, together with a
short description of each element.

6.  Start Game.
By selecting this option the game is started. The skill level you are
playing at is shown on the main screen. The window on the right shows
the control table. The main objective of the game on every level is to
deflect the magician's magic beam, carrying one of McDuffin's numerous
spells. The ingredients for each individual spell are to be found in
the brightly coloured pulsating cauldrons, which have to be hit by the
magic beam. This beam can be deflected by a series of tiltable mirrors,
but can also be reflected or absorbed by various objects. When all the
cauldrons have been consumed by the beam of energy, the spell is
complete and a magic door opens, through which you can now guide the
beam. When you have donethat you have achieved that skill level. The
window on the right shows the skill level you are playing and the
remaining cauldrons, your score, the magic energy supply left for the
magician and the overload of the beam. The latter occurs when the magic
beam is reflected into itself or onto the magician. Next to the two
buttons which switch the background rhythm on and off, the game can be
interrupted by selecting the "STOP" option. As you are asked to confirm
this, "STOP" can be used when you want a break from play for a certain
period of time. An exact description of the individual objects involved
in the game follows the description of the menu options.

7.  One Player/Two Players.
By selecting this option you can switch from one to two players. If you
have a joystick connected up to port 1, one game can be played by two
players at the same time, one using the mouse, the other the joystick.
That is to say, commands can be given by pressing the right or left
button on the mouse, or by moving the joystick to the left or right and
using the firing button.

8.  Quit.
This option ends the game.

LEGEND.
Gnome With Tiltable  Mirror:
By pressing the left or right button on the mouse the gnome turns the
mirror to the left or right. The beam of energy id reflected by the
mirror.

Fixed Polarizers:
These polarizers only allow the beam to pass through in one direction.
The matal polarizer reflects the beam, the wooden polarizer absorbs it.

Gregorius McDuffin. The Magician:
Sends out the spell in a straight line.

Magic Door:
Accepts the spell and ends the skill level. Only opens when all
cauldrons have been consumed.

Cauldrons:
Contains all the ingredients for the spell and must all be removed
before the magic door opens.

Prism:
Sends the beam off in a random direction.

Metal Wall:
Reflects the beam.

Wooden Wall:
Absorbs the beam.

Ice Wall:
Melts when hit by the beam, cue to absorbed energy.

Amoebiod Wall:
Spreads when hit, because of photosynthesis effect.

Cobalt Bomb:
Blows up the whole skill level.

Castle:
Can only be removed with the key. Reflects or absorbs the beam
according to the material (metal/wood).

Sensor Blocks:
Are sensitive to light and jump to one side when hit.

Surprise Balloon:
Contains various other objects.

Beamer:
Beams the beam to a second beamer!

Evil Gnome:
Eats amoebas and cauldrons.

Fuse:
Fuses when hit, can be put back in by using mouse button.

One And Two-way Polarizers (Tiltable):
Can be turned using the mouse and allow the magic beam to pass through
in one or two directions.

Light Bulbs:
Are switched to a different circuit when hit; must light up to the end
the skill level.

Fixed Mirrors:
Reflect the beam of energy, but cannot be turned or tilted.

Bonus ball (red/yellow/blue):
Gives bonus points.

Spell-Intensifier:
Supplies Gregorius McDuffin with new energy.
