                         MindWalker Solve Part 1

   Ok, when you start the game (at ANY of the "presets" in the startup
screen) you are one of four characters:
          a Wizard,
          a Spriggan,
          a Nymph,
          a Human.

   Each of these characters is associated with a color. These colors can be
determined by looking at their names on the map screen (you get the map by
clicking left-mouse on the  "scroll" in the top right of the "play-screen").
This color/characters relationship plays an important role !

   When you start up the game take a look at the map.  You'll see that there
is a flashing rectangle and a flashing square. The rectangle represents the
current "play-screen" and the square is where you are headed.  Now, notice
that there are  various colors on the map and these colors correspond to the
colors of the characters.

   You steer your character to a "crystal" (when you start the game you are
already "at" a crystal).  Now you must head  towards the flashing square that
you saw on the map.  As you go you will leave a trail of black squares AS
LONG AS YOU  ARE WALKING ON SQUARES THAT ARE THE SAME COLOR AS YOUR
CHARACTER'S COLOR. (these colors are NOT necessarily seen on the squares
(tiles ?) of the play-screen but they ARE seen  properly on the map.)  If you
reach a point where you cannot go any farther because the color changes, you
must find a "PYRAMID".  Pyramids allow you to change your character into
another.  Once you're "changed" to the RIGHT character you can go back to
where you left the path and carry on towards the flashing square.  Obviously
some advance planning with the map can save you a lot a aggravation here.

OTHER HINTS & TIPS
------------------
   Be very careful not to touch any other CRYSTALS as you go. If you do, then
you've essentially started over and your previous path is erased. You can
find where ANY of the important things are by going to the map and holding
down Left-Mouse while pointing at the desired item.  If you do this on a
character you will "light up" all the squares that character affects.  If you
look at "path" you can see just where you've been (MOST useful). You can also
find CRYSTALS, TUBES (more on this in a minute) and PYRAMIDS.

   TUBES will become numerous around your goal (the flashing square.  This
flashing square will be a flashing WHITE square in its play-screen).  YOU
CANNOT lay a path on squares with TUBES.  Plan your path carefully in
advance[ using the map.  It's hard enough fighting off all your attackers
without spending time rushing around trying to find your path again.  The
"devils-heads" cannot be killed.  You can only run from them.

   When you make it to your goal the play-field will go black (and look at
your map now as well.)  NOW, you can walk up to (into ?) a TUBE and you will
be in the Second Phase of LEVEL ONE.

   The entrance to phase two is via a screen with two hands. These hands must
capture a green block that's thrown at you from down a long tunnel.  This is
really pretty easy.  Only thing to get used to is that the joystick
directions work backwards. Just get a green block's center to hit the general
area of "between" the hands and you've got it.

   That's enough for now.  I'll do another on the second phase. (A hint
though... phase two is handled mostly through sound.)  Remember, the object
at this point is to lay down a CONTINUOUS path from the crystal to the
flashing square.
                           MindWalker Solve Part 2


   When you first enter Phase 2 you find that you are now in the form (?) of
some "invader" in the "body" of something.  The impression is gained first
from the beeping/chirping "anti-bodies" that are forever charging you and,
secondly, from the "heartbeat" that is heard.  THIS HEARTBEAT IS THE REAL
GUIDE THROUGH THIS SECTION OF THE GAME.

   Think of yourself as being in a maze. You can only see part of the maze
(your screen) at any one time.  Somewhere in this maze is your goal: a
diamond shaped, multi-colored object surrounded by a large number of
"anti-bodies". You should have little difficulty recognizing it.  YOU FIND
THIS THING BY THE HEARTBEAT which will beat FASTER/SLOWER as you get
CLOSER/FARTHER from the goal.  Once you find this 'diamond' and have
"touched" it, the sound is now used to find your way BACK to the top of the
tube that brought you here.  Make sure you keep your bearings as time counts
here.  You should try and perform this "mission" as fast as possible, but
DON'T TOUCH THE CELLS ! (by "cells" I mean the "walls" of the maze.)

   You will notice that there are two vertical "graph bars" at the right of
the screen.  Just what these truly represent is a mystery.  However, I can
make the following observations about them.  Killing anti-bodies lowers the
left bar and appears to further your ability to survive in this "hostile"
environment.  The right bar seems (!) to be connected to the time factor but
just how I'm not sure at all.  What the middle flashing horizontal part is
about is a big zip to me.

   When trying to get back down the tube you will find it's entrance is
surrounded by "cells".  The only (apparent) way through these things is to
have sufficient energy/strength (right bar ?) to dash through these cells
IMMEDIATELY after the screen does one of those little "flashes" of white.
(Trust me. I've done it so I know it can be done.)  Even then you may have
trouble getting back down the tube.  Be sure NOT to touch any of the cells AT
ALL.  Doing so takes away a LOT of your time/energy. (It often kills you
outright.)

   If you can get back down the tube you advance to the next level.  (Try
wriggling around over the top of the tube).

Hints:

   Hurry!  Time works against you here.  Consider yourself as a foreign
invader to a body.  That body is working all the time to wear you down.  Kill
anti-bodies as best you can.  Each one killed seems to help you out in
time/strength.  Try not to get hit by or stay under the vertical "sprite"
that occasionally moves across the screen.  Lots of "sparks" fly on this one.
You lose time/strength from this.
   Do your best to keep your bearings in mind.  It makes it a LOT easier to
get back to the tube/exit quickly.  Remember, you need as much strength as
possible to withstand the rigors of getting through the cells to the tube.

Level Two:

   So far, playing at level two seems to be just a faster, more complex
version of level one.  You'll notice that there are little "bites" taken out
of the spheres.  Also, beware of the "play-fields" that have one or more
"towers".  These towers MUST be "touched" before they will lower the "fence"
around the border of the play-field and allow you to move on.  This can be
MOST disconcerting when there are two death-heads setting you in their
sights!  AND, even if you manage to touch the tower(s) and escape, the next
time you venture into that screen the towers are "reset" and you have to do
it again.  Takes away that first round ability to jump back and forth between
screens to escape things.
