                           MAYDAY SQUAD

INTRODUCTION
------------

When the diplomats are done talking, when the world's armies and navies
can only impotently rattle their nuclear sabres, there's only one thing
to do. The governments of the Free World turn to the highly trained men
(and women) of the Mayday Squad.

The Mayday Squad, established by the United Nations Security Council to
directly meet the menace of international terrorism, is composed of three-
men teams of commandos. While all team members share certain qualities,
including a high level of athletic ability, courage and tenacity, each also
possesses specialized skills. By effectively blending their areas of
expertise, the Mayday Squad succeeds where the mass might of mega-powers
falls short.

This computer game is the story of one of the Mayday Squad's most perilous
missions. The player takes command of the three-man Mayday Squad, which
must force its way into what remains of the Lutonian Embassy.

Somewhere inside the building, the teenage daughter of the Lutonian
Ambassador cowers in a small room. When The Red Legion, a previously
unknown band of fanatics, raided and sacked the embassy, she hid in an
out-of-the-way room rather than fall into the hands of the international
terrorists.

Though she is temporarily safe, The Red Legion is combing the three floors
of the Lutonian Embassy for hostages and booty. Even if they don't find
the girl, the Red Legion has threatened to blow up the Embassy at sundown
if their demands are not met. And the Lutonians, a stiff-necked people,
have no intention of budging an inch.

The Mayday Squad has two missions. A commander may complete either and earn
a measure of credit, but only rescuing the Ambassador's daughter and
blowing up The Red Legion leaders (before they blow the building and escape
via a rooftop helicopter) to earn a Special Commendation and Total Victory
Parade.

Mayday Squad is a modified first-person perspective game. It mixes quick
thinking and blazing combat. In it, the computerist controls a three-
person commando team in a life-or-death race against a deadline. The
Mayday Squad must assault an embassy captured by a band of international
terrorists called The Red Legion.

Prior to the actual start of play, the computerist receives a Mission
Briefing. An Option Screen allows the player to select three commandos
to form the Mayday Squad. Although each character has abilities similar
to other commandos of the same type, there are slight individual
differences in performance - and, of course, each man and woman has a
distinctive physical appearance.

The computerist uses the controller (or keyboard) to direct this group of
three characters during the mission. The three members of the Mayday
Squad, shown from a vantage point just behind the group, advance up halls
and corridors, climb and descend staircases, ride elevators, search rooms,
hunt for secret doors and stairways and fight the enemy wherever
encountered.

The computerist controls one member of the squad at a time. A simple
command system allows the player to switch control from character to
character as the requirements of the mission dictate. The computer guides
the actions of the two men not under the player's direct control.

Each member of the Mayday Squad possesses special skills which the gamer
must take into account during the mission if it is to be a success. Split
second decisions about which man to control directly in each situation
build tension and excitement in this thrilling action-combat saga.

Page 1.


LOADING: To load place disk into the drive and switch ON. The program
-------- will now load. After a few seconds the title screen will appear.

OPTIONS:
--------
To select an Option move the mouse to a highlighter category required
then press left mouse button. Now select an option within the category
by moving mouse left or right. Confirm with left mouse button. To continue
press RETURN key.

KEYBOARD:
---------            Q = UP               O = LEFT
                     A = DOWN             P = RIGHT
                     SPACE BAR = FIRE

Follow screen commands and press Return.

SKILL LEVELS:
-------------
                     GREENI               -     FAIRLY EASY
                     REGULAR              -     AVERAGE
                     VETERAN              -     HARD

HITS PER MAN
------------         Sets the number of hits a soldier can take before he
                     dies. THIS can be set at

                     20 Hits
                     30 Hits
                     50 Hits

NUMBER OF GRENADES
------------------   Sets how much armament the Squad carries into the
                     Embassy. This covers grenades, explosive charges and
                     Ammo.

TEAM SELECTION
--------------
The Mayday Squad is made up of three experts.
A Captain/Leader: The gunner of the Squad.
A Communications Expert: For picking locks / using computers etc.
A Demolitions Expert: For defusing traps / setting explosives.
Select your Team Members in the same way as the Options Menu when you've
finished press Return.
Press 'Y' / 'N' to verify correct selection.
Your Mission Briefing will now follow.

THE SCREEN LAYOUT
-----------------
TOP LEFT CORNER           -   Mission clock.
TOP MIDDLE                -   Hit point counters for the Squad.
                              Below Zero is death.
TOP RIGHT CORNER          -   Ammunition gauge
BELOW CLOCK               -   INFORMATION BAR
                              From time to time messages will appear here.
BELOW AMMO GAUGE          -   Compass indicating which compass direction
                              you are facing.

Page 2.


BOTTOM LEFT PANEL         -   The Team selection panel
                                  3 circular icons
                                   (1)     Select Leader for point
                                           position.
                                   (2)     Select Demolition Leader for
                                           point position.
                                   (3)     Select Communications Officer
                                           for point position.

COMPASS ROSETTE
---------------
The highlighted icons are possible directions of travel:

      The arrow pointing up      -   Walk forward
      The arrow pointing Left    -   Turn 90 degrees Left
      The arrow pointing Right   -   Turn 90 degrees Right
      The arrow pointing down    -   Turn 180 degrees

When the possibility to go up or down is available, extra icons will appear
to the left of the Rosette.
To PAUSE or for Game Status press RETURN key.

COMMUNICATIONS MENU
-------------------
RE-LOAD                    -  Re-load gun.
LISTENING DEVICE           -  Used for listening at doors.
SONIC LOCKPICK             -  Used for opening locked doors.
USE COMMUNICATOR           -  Used for Communicating with Base.
OPERATE COMPUTER           -  Gaining information from computers.
IR GOGGLES                 -  For better vision in dark rooms.
SEARCH                     -  Searches doors and objects for traps.
EXIT MENU                  -  Returns to the game.

DEMOLITIONS MENU
----------------
RE-LOAD                    -  Re-load gun.
THROW GRENADE              -  Throwing grenades.
PLACE EXPLOSIVES           -  For placing explosives on specific objects.
PLACE BOOBY TRAP           -  For placing booby traps.
SET 30 MIN. TIMER          -  For a 30 min. delayed explosion.
BELOW EXPLOSIVES           -  In rooms in direction you are facing.
EXIT MENU                  -  Returns to the game.

GAME PLAY
---------
To move your Team around the Embassy use the arrow icons to the right
screen, to pick the highlighted direction you wish them to travel in,
then press the Fire Button.

TEAM MEMBERS CHARACTERISTICS
----------------------------
Each member has his/her own personal skills and these will be listed by
selecting the appropriate icon on the left and pressing FIRE.
The injuries sustained by the Team Members are displayed at the top of
the screen as is the time remaining and ammunition left.
To PAUSE the game press RETURN.

HINTS & TIPS
------------
If you run out of ammo try searching in the Armoury. When you throw a
grenade the closer you are to the target the greater the injuries you
will receive - SO BEWARE !

GAME OVER  happens when the game is completed or your Team dies.
---------

Page 3.

          Complete manual provided by THE HELLION & THE CORSAIR
         for the newest and best name in business " PARANOIMIA "

