                        SPACE ROGUE - SOLUTION & TIPS

Typed in by PARASITE of LSD.


First get yourself some decent weaponry.  After docking at Hiathra, go
to see Orellian, the Impreium Representative and take your Space
Pilots exam.  The answers are;
1)  3.26
2)  type 0
3)  F=M+A
4)  The Imperium
If you don't have your Space Pilots license, you can't but any weapons
or shields etc.

Talk to everyone in the base especially Veda (a green monster).  If he
is selling some Contact lenses, buy them.  Go tot the room where Cebak
is (the girl who keeps talking about the greatest coin-op in the
Galaxy, HIVE!).  Inspect the far right space suit on the back wall,
and you will find a key card.  When you have spoken to everyone, go
and see the Ship Outfitter.  Buy four extra cargo pods.  Then go to
the traider and buy eight tons of either 1GB RAMs, or supercomputers.
If they don't have these, don't buy anything.

Go to Micron I outpost.  Sell what you have just bought and buy
Explosives or Forged credits.  The important thing about Smuggling
Contraband is to have a differant item in your last cargo pod, that
way you usually don't get caught.  Go and see Sir Eld, he will ask you
to do him a favour, agree to it.  Go back to Hiathra Starbase and
deliver the statuette to the Imperium Representative.  Sell the
Explosives or Forged Credits, but not Supercomputers or 1GB RAMs.
Return to Micron 1 and talk to Sir Eld.  He will give you some useful
advice, and a stealth box.  Repeat this Hiathra to Mikron I until you
have enough credits to buy a Particle Beam Laser.

Now you must make a decision, wheather to become a Pirate or Bounty
Hunter.  Being a Pirate means you get more combat and money, but every
ship will attack you.  If you are a Bounty Hunter, the Merchants will
leave you alone.

Now you need more Armour, when you have 500 of this and your Repute is
Fierce or higher, go to see Dutchess Avenstar at Denebprime Starbase
in the Deneb system.  She will give you a mission.  Talk to the
Student on Deneb who will tell you to go to see Nar'See and say
"Rakbit" to one of the aliens.

Do this and then go back to the student.  She will give you a Malir
Artifact system.  Go to the Mining Station.  save your position before
docking with the station, as there are a few monsters running around
the station, who will attack you.

When you have docked, go to the room directly below the docking bay.
A monster should enter here so be careful, you must try to get a table
between the monster and yourself, and run through one of the doors.
When you are sure that you have lost the monster, go to the room at
the bottom left of the station (The one with the safe in it), and
inspect the cabinet below it.  You should find some NSB's.  Now go
back to the ship and fly to the Arcturus system, then go to the Micron
II Mining station.  Go to the Madman in one of the corridoors and talk
to him.  Select 'Other' and type 'NSB'.  He will ask you the name of
his mission, to which the reply is 'Ferret', he will tell you to go
and see Gut.

Go to the Koth carrier, and use the card on the locked door.  Avoid
the alarm squares and go and inspect one of the squares on the top
wall.  You will find a Transmutation Coil as long as you have bought
the Contact lenses off Veda.

Go back to the Bassruti system and soar through the vacuum to the Free
Guild Outpost.  Go to the Chi-Sha and say you are a Rogue.  Select
'other' and say 'LUX-23A'.  Agree to help her and she will come on
your ship as a repair droid.  Go and see Omar, and demand to see Gut.
He will tell you to go and destroy a Titan first.  This is not too
difficult if you have 500 armour and decent shields.  When you have
done this, go back and talk to Gut.  Explain Koth's plot and he will
tell you to go and see a Baakili Fartrader.  Say to him 'Manchi', and
offer him the Malir artifact.  When you have recieved the information,
go and see Gut again.  He will tell you to go and see Trochal to steal
the Chigonger back.

Go to the Micon IV Mining station in the Zed N27 system.  Once at the
station search behind the locked door until you find a psionic shield.
Go to the Trochal outpost in the Sigure system and go and see Vilanie.
She will ask you to remove the shield - don't!  She will call the
guards, so quickly unlock the door in her room and inspect next to the
egg.  Pick up the chigonger and go back to Gut.  Then go to Zed N27
and talk to Professor Prosk.  Give him the Transmutation Coil, and a
sk him for the Null Damper.  Explain about the egg and enter the co-
ordinates 'GC 3409'.  Go to the navigation console, and set course for
the Manchi homeworld.  Dock here for the end sequence.

TIPS

BASSRUTI MINING STATION
Use the map to get through the Bassruti mining station, if you wander
around, the monster will get you.  It is fairly stupid so escape is
possible.

WEAPONS
Don't think about beconing a Pirate or a Bounty hunter until you are
armed to the teeth!  The most expensive laser is the best.  Buy the
Sapphire laser first (if you can afford it), then upgrade to a
Particle Beam. Plasma torpedoes are effective, cheap, and compact, so
buy six of these and seven Nova missiles.

WORMHOLE JUMPS
To enter a Wormhole you must fly through the Malir gate with a maximum
velocity of 21ms.  You can fly through the sides with no damage to the
armour.  Avoid Ion storms if you are carrying persihable goods.  A
reasnable wormhole speed is between 15 and 22ms.  Detour around any
Shard fields, things get difficult if you are navigating these while
you are in combat.  Avoid Asteroids and Nebulae where possible.

ADD-ONS
The Turbo-thruster is useful, partucually if you have full cargo bays.
Armour plates are worth the money, for maximum armour, you'll need
four plates.  Buy these first, and as they are bought, you need to
select 'repair armour'.  ECMs are handy for fights with Titans and
Coursairs.

GOOD CAREER MOVES
Other ships may be friends or foes.  Becoming a bounty hunter is
dangerous, but very profitable.  A bounty Hunter will be attacked by
every Cart and Coursair, so being well-equipped is essential.  Being a
Pirate puts a bounty on your head and you can expect Cruisers,
Hunters, and the awesome Titans attacking you.
Providing you can find a profitable trading route, being a merchant is
the lucrative way of surviving although Darts and Corsairs may attack.

DOGFIGHTING IN THE VACUUM OF SPACE
Manchi will always attack you no matter who you are, the resulting
battle is ALWAYS a fight to the death as they never surrender or give
up a fight.  The Elite equivalent of these pain-in-the-rears are the
Thargoids.  Ask the Imperial Captain if you want news on the Manchi.
Wasps are easy to kill but Vultures are a different matter, only
moderately equipped ships stand any chance against them.  Getting
attacked by two (or even three) Vultures is rare but invariably
lethal.

End.
