

Mortal Kombat II Strategy Guide


Section 1- Character Profiles and Moves

Liu Kang-  The true master of the tournament, 
 Liu Kang, was the only one who could defeat 
 Goro and Shang Tsung.  Now he's back and better 
 than ever defending the honor of the Shaolin 
 monks with a new low fireball as well as a 
 devastating Bicycle Kick!!

Double Forearm-  HP (Close to opponent)
Fireball-  F, F+HP (Works in air)
Low Fireball-  F, F+LP
Flying Kick-  F, F+HK (Works in air)
Bicycle Kick-  Hold LK for 5 seconds
Fatalities-  (While close) D, F, B, B, HK  Liu 
	     Kang turns into a dragon and chomps 
             his opponent in half.
Also try-  Hold BL+(U, U, HP+HK)			
           Reverse circle starting at F
 
Kung Lao-  The winner of the first Mortal 
 Kombat, he was defeated at the hands of Goro 
 and Shang Tsung. He has returned to avenge his 
 loss, bringing with him an impressive array of 
 moves and great control of his hat.

Spin Shield-  U, U+LK
Teleport-  D, D, U
Hat toss (high)-  B, F, U+LP
Hat toss (low)-  B, F, D+LP
Fatalities-  F, F, F, F, LK  Kung Lao removes 
             his razor sharp hat and promptly 
	     slices you in half with it!!!
Also try-  Hold BL (U, U, U, U, LP+HP)			
	   Hold BL (F, F, LK)

Johnny Cage-  The Hollywood head honcho is back 
 with his usual attitude and moves to back it 
 up. He retained his patented Shadow Kick, but 
 now his fireballs curve. His dragon punch move 
 will make mincemeat out of any so called street 
 fighter!!!

Fireball-  D, DF, F+LP
High fireball-  D, DB, B+HP
Shadow Kick-  B, F+LK
Shadow Uppercut-  B, D, DB, B+HP
Groin Grab-  LP+BL
Fatalities-  (While close) D, D, F, F, LP  Cage 
             has learned that ripping off your 
	     head wasn't enough-know he rips you 
	     in half!!!!
Also Try-  F, F, F, LP						
 	   F, F, F, D, U

Reptile-  The mystery character from the Pit now 
 joins the others in the Outworld. No longer 
 possessing the moves of Scorpion and Sub-Zero, 
 he know has his own tricks up his sleeve...

Venom spit-  F, F+HP
Energy  Orb-  B, B, HP+LP
Invisibility-   Hold BL (U, U, D+HP)
Fatalities-  B, B, D, HP  Reptile decides to 
	     make a meal by ripping your head off 
	     with his tongue and eating. Mm Good!!
Also Try-  Hold BL (D, D, D, DB, B, B+LP)

Jackson Briggs-  Jax is one bad dude!!! This  
 guy can pummel you very quickly, very easily!!! 
 His grab/punch, though cheap, will beat the 
 crap out of most opponents. Definitely a guy to 
 watch for!

Dizzy Punch-  (While close) F+HP
Grab and Smack-  F, F+LP
Wave Punch-  D, DB, B+HK
Earthquake-  Hold HP+LP
Ground Slam-  B, F+HP
Fatalities-  Hold LP (B,B,B) release LP  Jax 
	     decides to be a human clapper. He 
	     rears back, then SLAM!!! He nails 
	     your head on both sides, crushing 
	     your skull to pieces!!!
Also Try-  Hold BL (B, D, B, LP)

Mileena-  One of the new deadly women, she can 
 hold her own against any guy in this game. She 
 has lightning speed and those deadly sais!! Use 
 her speed to your advantage!!

Sai Shot-  Hold HP, then release (works in air)
Warp Drop Kick-  B, F+LK
Throw-  F+LP
Sai Swipe- B+HP
Air Attack-  D, DB, B+HP
Fatalities-  F, B, F, LP  Mileena desires to 
	     play short order cook by continuously 
	     slicing your stomach! Lots of blood. 
	     Lots of fun. 

Baraka-  The evil looking Baraka must be from 
 the Outworld. His evil eyes, teeth, and bald 
 head give him a sinister appearance. Has 
 Wolverine-like claws, and he's not afraid to 
 use them. Rumored to be Goro's nephew...

Deep Head Slice-  B+HP
Spark Toss-  D, DB, B+HP
Slice-O-Matic-  B, B, B+LP
Blade Spin-  D, DB, B+(HK+LK)
Fatalities-  Hold BL (B, B, B+HP)  Baraka wants 
	     to give you a quick and painless 
	     death-by removing your head!!! Cool!!			
	     Hold BL (B, B, B, F, F+LP)  Baraka 
	     raises you up on his long blades, 
	     watches you die and slowly sink into 
 	     the blades. Nice guy, huh?			
	     (Really close) F, F, F, LK  Baraka 
	     slices you in half!!!! This one might 
	     only be in the newer games!

Scorpion-  The specter ninja and rival enemy of 
 Sub-Zero is back and meaner than ever. Wearing 
 a outfit identical to Sub-Zero, except for the 
 yellow to symbolize Sub-Zero's cowardice, 
 Scorpion has added an air throw and wrestling 
 move!! Still tough guy to beat. Plus the 
 fatality's a snap!

Spear-  B, B+LP
Teleport-  D, DB, B+HP (Can do in the air)
Air Throw-  hold BL (Only in air!)
Take Down-  D, DB, B+LK (Can do in the air)
Fatalities-  Hold BL (U, U, HP)  Yummy!!! 
	     Nothing better than a nice stir fry 
	     warrior!! Scorpion blasts you with 
	     fire, leaving your quivering, flaming 
	     bones, which promptly explode!!

Sub-Zero-  The cold powered ninja is back with 
 an icy trick up his sleeve!! He can now freeze 
 the ground, leaving foes slipping and sliding! 
 Follow up with an uppercut, and it's good night 
 Seattle...

Freeze-  D, DF, F+LP
Ground Ice-  D, DB, B+LK
Slide-  DB+BL+LP+LK
Fatalities-  When Close, Hold BL (F, F, B, B, 
	     HP+LP)YES!!!! At last, the Sub-Zero 
	     fatality has been found!!! Sub-Zero's 
	     decides to teach you the dangers of 
	     ice cycles, and he'll do a lot more 
	     than shoot your eye out!!!

Kitana-  Looks like a twin of Mileena, Kitana is 
 a beautiful woman who makes Sonya Blade look 
 like Mary Poppins!! Her bladed fans will toast 
 most opponents!!! She's a deadly lady!

Fan Slash-  Hold B, HP
Fan Toss-  F, F+ (HP+LP) (Works in the air)
Fan Wave-  F, B+HP
Big Punch-  D, DB, B, HP
Air Sweep-  F, B+HP
Fatalities-  F, B, F, LP  This is supposed to be 
	     Kitana's fatality. In the December 
	     issue of EGM, they show her kissing a 
	     guy and making them blow up! This may 
	     or may not be it.

Raiden-  The immortal thunder God is back after 
 glory! After being personally invited to the 
 first tournament, Raiden has come once more to 
 prove the power of the Gods!! Watch out for his 
 new electric grab, as well as his mid-air 
 torpedo.

Torpedo-  B, B, F (Works in the air)
Lightning Strike-  D, DF, F+LP
Teleport-  D, U
Shock Grab-  (When close) Hold HP, release
Fatality-  F, F, B, D, F+HP
	   Fry the man where they stand until only 
	   their shoes are left! Ouch!

Shang Tsung-  The evil boss of Mortal Kombat, 
 he has the hometown advantage in the Outworld. 
 he can morph into any character (rumor has it 
 he can morph to Goro) and wants to avenge his 
 defeat!!! Fireballs work great!! Seems to be 
 the most popular character.

One Fireball-  B, B+HP
Two Fireballs-  B,B, F+HP
Three Fireballs-  B,B, F, F, F+HP
Smash Punch-  F+HP
Morphs- Liu Kang-  B, B, F, F, BL
	Kung Lao-  D, DB, B, HK
	Johnny Cage-  DB, DB, LP
	Reptile-  Hold BL, U, D, HP
	Sub-Zero-  F,D,F,HP
  	Kitana-  BL, BL, BL, BL
	Jax-  D, F, B, HK
	Mileena-  Hold HP, release
	Baraka-  D, D+LK
	Scorpion-  Hold BL, U, U
	Raiden-  F, D, DB, B, LK
Fatalities-  When CLOSE (BL+HK)  Only on Player 
	     1, Shang Tsung has had enough playing 
	     around!! As a matter of fact, he 
	     sucks your soul right out of your 
	     body!!! Very creepy!!
Also Try-  Hold BL (F, B, B, B, HP+LP)

Section 2- Combos

LIU KANG:  For some reason, the computer enjoys 
 getting hit by Liu Kang's flying kick or simply 
 ducks under it.  Just keep doing that back and 
 forth while you are charging for the bicycle 
 kick.  Do a bicycle kick once in a while and 
 the computer will get hit(better when close).      	
                        Jump Kick - Flying Kick:  Jump kick your 

 opponent low and immediately do the flying 
 kick.  Start the two forward motion right 
 before you hit, then quickly press HIGH KICK.  
 Sometimes if you do the flying kick too fast 
 you will go over your opponent.
Hop Punch - Standard Fireball:  Hop punch your 
 opponent in the air and immediately do the 
 standard fireball.  Start the two forward 
 motion right before you hit, then quickly press 
 HIGH PUNCH.
Jump Kick - Standard Fireball - Low Fireball:  
 Jump kick your opponent and immediately do a 
 high fireball.  Start the two forward motion 
 right before you hit, then quickly press HIGH 
 PUNCH.  If you are fighting the computer, you 
 can follow the standard fireball with a ground 
 fireball, which the computer will not block.		
                   Air fireball-Low Fireball-Flying Kick -hold LK-

 Air fireball-Release LK.
Jump Kick-Bicycle Kick-  Hold down LK at all 
 times when jump kicking, then...Let it rip!

KUNG LAO:  Jump Kick - Hat Toss:  Jump kick your 
 opponent low and immediately do the hat throw.  
 Be sure to guide the hat down so it hitsthe 
 falling opponent.
Jump Kick -Spin Shield	
Teleport-Sweep, HK
Any punch-Spin shield (When close)	Uppercut-Hat Toss

JOHNNY CAGE:  Jump Kick - Shadow Kick:  Jump 
 kick your opponent low and immediately do the 
 shadow kick.
Jump Kick - Low Fireball:  Jump kick your 
 opponent low and immediately do the low 
 fireball.  After starting the jump kick, keep 
 the joystick in the away position, so you can 
 quickly do the half-circle motion right after 
 you hit.
Groin Buster- Jump Kick - Shadow Kick:  Do the 
 groin buster against your opponent.  
 Immediately jump over the groaning victim and 
 kick them low as you turn to face the other 
 direction.  Follow this with the shadow kick.		
                      Groin Buster-Shadow Kick-Jumpkick-Shadow 

 Uppercut-Fireball
Jump Punch-Shadow Uppercut-Fireball	
Jump Punch-Shadow Kick
Uppercut-Low Fireball
Jump Kick-Groin Buster-Sweep
Turn Around Kick-Groin Buster

REPTILE:  Shoot an Orb from far away and often 
 times, the computer will not react and keep 
 walking forward.  When he gets hit by the ball, 
 do your combo of choice. However, he might 
 throw a missile at you as soon as you do an 
 energy ball.  If that happens, do an energy 
 ball again and the computer will not react the 
 second time or the third time.
Jump Kick - Venom Spit:  Jump kick your opponent 
 low and immediately do the venom spit.  Start 
 the two forward motion right before you hit, 
 then quickly press HIGH PUNCH. 
Orb, Uppercut,Orb,Jump Kick, Venom         	Orb-Jump Kick-Venom Spit

Orb + Fatality:  This one's weird.  Immediately 
 after releasing an Orb, do the fatality.  The 
 victim will bounce towards you from the 
 powerball but the fatality will still work.  
 The tongue pushes the victim back into range 
 and proceeds as normal.  Only thing is 
 Reptile's head was about a centimeter to the 
 left of his neck when the fatality was 
 finished...bizarre.

SUB-ZERO:  Jump Kick - Slide:  Jump kick your 
 opponent low and immediately do the slide. 
 immediately do a hop kick, followed by the 
 slide.  Easiest when your opponent is frozen.	
                      Ground Ice-Freeze-When frozen-Uppercut

Ground Ice-Jump Kick-Slide
Slide-Ground Freeze-Uppercut
Throw-Slide
Uppercut-Freeze
Sweep-Ground Ice-Freeze-Uppercut 

SHANG TSUNG:  Flaming Skulls:  If you can catch 
 your opponent in the air with the first one, 
 there is a good chance that the other two will 
 hit. Do the three skulls before your opponent 
 jumps towards or away from you.     

KITANA:  Her jump kick then air fan throw combo 
 is very effective even if the jump kick is 
 blocked. 
Jump Kick - Fan Toss:  Jump kick your opponent 
 low and immediately do the fan toss.  Start the 
 two forward motion right before you kick, then 
 press both punch buttons.  If you are fighting 
 the computer and they block your jump kick, the 
 fan toss will usually hit.
Jump Kick - Fan Wave:  Jump kick your opponent 
 low and immediately do the fan wave.  Start the 
 three back motion right before you hit, then 
 quickly press HIGH PUNCH.  You must do the fan 
 wave immediately, or it will not catch the 
 falling opponent.
Fan Wave - Jump Kick - Fan Toss - Hop Kick:  
 Catch the opponent with the fan wave and wait 
 until they are near the top.  Walk forward as 
 far as you can then do a jump kick, catching 
 the opponent as they are falling down.  
 Immediately do the fan toss, quickly followed 
 by a hop kick.  If your opponent is fairly 
 close or near the corner, you could do a 
 regular jump kick instead of a hop kick for the 
 last move.
Fan Wave, Jump Kick, Fan Toss in air
Cornering Manuver- When opponent is in the  
 corner- Fan Wave-Jump Kick-Fan Toss-Fan Wave. 
 Do it once and you can repeat it over and over.

JACKSON BRIGGS:  Dizzy Punch-Uppercut:  The 
 overhead hammer will stun the opponent 
 momentarily. You can follow this with any move, 
 such as an uppercut or quadruple slam.	
                 Jump Kick - Wave Punch:  Jump kick your opponent 

 low and immediately do the Wave Punch.  After 
 starting the jump kick, keep the joystick in 
 the forward position, so you can quickly do the 
 half-circle motion right after you hit.	
                      Jump Kick - Grab and Smack:  Jump kick your  

 opponent low and immediately do the grab.  
 Start the two forward motion right before you 
 hit, then quickly press LOW PUNCH.  Jax will 
 grab air if not done quickly enough.

MILEENA:  Jump Kick - Sai Shot:  Jump kick your 
 opponent low and immediately do the sai shot.  
 You will need to charge the move before you 
 jump.  Immediately after hitting with the jump 
 kick, release HIGH PUNCH.
The computer is a sucker for her air Sais.  Jump 
 up and throw air sais right before you land(so 
 that your sais will hit the top of his/her 
 head). The computer does not block it most of 
 the time.

BARAKA:  Jump Kick - Spark Toss:  Jump kick your 
 opponent low and immediately do the spark toss.  
 After starting the jump kick, keep the joystick 
 in the down position, so you can quickly do the 
 quarter-circle motion right after you hit.	
                     Jump Kick - Slice-O-Matic:  Jump kick your 

 opponent low and immediately do the blade fury.  
 Start the three back motion right before you 
 hit, then quickly press LOW PUNCH.  If you do 
 not connect with the blade fury, you are left 
 vulnerable for an attack.
Deep Head Slice - Slice-O-Matic
Sweep-Spark Toss
When opponent is in the corner-  Slice-O-Matic, 
 Jump Kick, Slice-O-Matic 

SCORPION:  Jump Kick - Spear:  Jump kick your 
 opponent low and immediately do the spear.  
 Start the two back motion right before you hit, 
 then quickly press LOW PUNCH.
Jump Kick - Take Down:  Jump kick your opponent 
 low and immediately do the take down.  After 
 starting the jump kick, keep the joystick in 
 the forward position, so you can quickly do the 
 half-circle motion right after you hit.	
                    Jump Kick - Air Throw:  Jump kick your opponent  

 low and deep, then immediately do the air throw 
 by repeatedly pressing BLOCK.
Teleport Punch - Spear:  Teleport punch your 
 opponent and immediately spear.  This will work 
 best if you catch the opponent in the air with 
 the teleport punch, making it easier to spear 
 them before they hit the ground.
Teleport Punch - Take Down:  Teleport punch your 
 opponent and immediately do the take down.  
 This will work best if you catch the opponent 
 in the air with the teleport punch, making it 
 easier to leg grab them just as they hit the 
 ground.
Jump Kick- Air Throw- Teleport Punch-Spear

RAIDEN:  Jump Kick - Torpedo:  Jump kick your 
 opponent low and immediately do the torpedo.
Hop Kick/Punch - Torpedo:  Hop kick/punch your 
 opponent in the air and immediately do the 
 torpedo.
Jump Kick - Lightning:  Jump kick your opponent 
 low and immediately do the lightning.  After 
 starting the jump kick, keep the joystick in 
 the down position, so you can quickly do the 
 quarter-circle motion right after you hit.	
                      Shock Grab - Punch - Torpedo:  As Raiden lets go  

 of the opponent after the shock grab, punch 
 twice.  This will pop them into the air, which 
 can be followed by the torpedo.

Section 3- Tricks, Techniques, Rumors, Hints

	xWhen Midway released Mortal Kombat II, they did so in most markets
unfinished. There is a first version, then a newer one on west coast and
Chicago area. That's why you can't get to the ? level, can't knock the guy
off the bridge or the pit, and can't do other moves. There are 3 secret
characters in the game- most believe them to be Kano, Sonya, and the man on
fire in the background of the Pit stage. While there are rumors that there's
more, I really doubt it. Once the ROM upgrade is installed into the old
version of Mortal Kombat II, new fatalities will become available, new moves
found, new levels discovered. Until then, we play. Midway wanted to kombat
the new Street Fighter game by releasing Mortal Kombat 2 early. It worked-
at the local arcades in my area, no one plays Super SF II.
	Shang Tsung on the ceiling trick There is a trick in the game so that
Shang Tsung ends up on the ceiling. You must be Shang Tsung, and Player 2 must
be Shang Tsung or one of the girls. Player 2 must morph into one of the girls
for the trick to work. Right when Shang Tsung starts to throw fireballs, have
the girl throw him. He'll now be on the ceiling!!! Takes practice, but it does 
work.Try throwing the computer Good luck!  It is impossible, even when the
opponent is frozen or dizzy.  Try to throw them after you beat them.  They will
just pick you up and toss you, then fall over. Apparently you CAN throw the
computer on a 1.4.  Still don't know if you can block them from throwing you
though.
Try the fatalities in the air.  Liu Kang can do his dragon fatality in the air.
Can others?  Also, try Reptile's fatality as he is invisible.
Reptile Death Trick-Victim must be Reptile or Shang morphed into Reptile.
Reptile must be invisible.  Kill Reptile while he is invisible with a leg grab.
Reptile will still be invisible.  Back up and do the fatality.   Scorpion will
Breathe fire onto (the invisible) Reptile.  You hear the  scream and the there
is an explosion of bones engulfed in flames. Cool  part:  after the bones
settle an image of the skeleton will appear where Reptile was standing, frozen
in mid-explosion!
Reptile's Fast Food-Victim must be Reptile or Shang morphed into Reptile.
Reptile must be invisible.  Morph into Scorpion.  Time your morph (in v1.1,
Shang remains morphed for 12 seconds) so that you will change return to Shang
just after you execute Scorpion's leg throw.  Reptile will still be  invisible. 
Morph into Reptile and perform the fatality. Reptile (Shang)  will do the
fatality as normal but the victim will not have a body.  The  head being eaten
seems to appear from thin air.  After the fatality everything is visible.
Scorpion makes Whoopy!- After you execute Scorpion's fatality, start rapidly
pushing both punch buttons rapidly. After you toast the guy, the screen will
flash the word "Toasted!" and you will hear a loud "whoopy" yell!!
Getting out of a corner-There are times when you screw up and end up in a
corner.  Do not panic.  Crouch and wait for the CPU to approach.  When the CPU
is within sweep range but out of his/her throw range, jump over him/her.  Kick
him/her as soon as you character turns around. Often times the CPU will not
block it.  If it blocks the kick, do an air fan throw if you are Kitana.
Otherwise, try to block the retaliation.  Then jump back a few times
immediately.
Use the turn-around kick(TAK) often.The computer does not block a TAK 70% of
the time.  Use it to your advantage.  It hits, follow up with a missile
weapon.  If the computer blocks it, throw a fan if you are Kitana, or do a high
fireball if you are Liu Kang.
How to get to the secret characters-In the latest issue of GamePro, they
interview Ed Boon (MKII programmer) and he said this about hidden characters:
"In the second game though, there are actual plateaus that you're hitting with
your score.  When you get 30 wins in a row, you fight one hidden character.
When you hit 50 you get this, or maybe when you do 10 Fatalities in a row. . 
everything is kind of building up to do something way down the line."
Secret Character Trick?- During the character selection screen, move the cursor
to Liu Kang.  Now hold the joystick to the left until the cursor moves off of
Liu and onto the grey background.  (This did actually happen. It moves just
before the game starts.) What you are supposed to do next is tap 5 times to the
left. What this is supposed to do is access a menu of 5 hidden characters!!  We
tried it several times, but we were never able to get the 5 taps in between the
time the cursor moves and the time the game starts.  We tried the same thing
going to the right, with the cursor on Reptile, and the cursor moved into the
background again, just like before. We tried hitting buttons after the cursor
moved, and when we did this, we ended up with a character other than Liu or
Reptile. (Raiden or Jax, to be exact.)	
Also, here's a VERY interesting rumor someone told me yesterday. Actually three
things.  First off, this guy said the Pit II does work, but in order to knock
the guys down, you have to aim it so when you uppercut them, they fall 
perfectly through one of those 'holes' on the platform.  I looked and sure
enough, there were circular shapes on the platform, but I was unable to get
anyone to land directly on it.  Second, he said if you did Liu Kang's old
fatality on the Armory stage, you could knock someone onto the spikes on the
ceiling.  I tried this once and the guy didnt even reach the ceiling, or else he
didnt stick.  He also said Liu could hang up on the meathooks of the Dead Pool
with that fatality, but I didn't try it. The last two sound bogus to me as there
is no way anyone else could do this, only Liu's fatality can get them up that
high. However, the Pit thing does sound very plausible as I never took notice of
those holes and also never tried to knock anyone off. 
How to beat Kintaro-In my nook of the world, our players use Baraka, or anybody
for that matter, and score the first hit, then avoid the beast and win on time
disqualification. An easier way is to take advantage of a bit of a glitch re.
Liu Kang. Start off the round by rapidly punching. It will hit him at least
once, then he will stand amazed by the display of yelling and punching,
allowing you to when on a time disqualification!!


