                                STARFLIGHT

Typed in by ACU. Edited by PARASITE.


STARPORT CENTRAL, ARTH ORBIT STATION, 30-10-4619

DEAR STARSHIP COMMANDER:
We  are  sorry  you were unable to attend the Operation Starflight briefing
last  week.  Those who attended can vouch for the enthusiasm and excitement
that  prevailed  during the meeting.  We at Interstel feel that this is the
beginning  of  a  new  era,  and  that  you  and  your  colleagues  will be
instrumental in making this mission a success.

To make sure you will have all the information you need, we have included a
copy  of  the  briefing  transcript  ,  and  your own copy of the Technical
Reference  Manual.   This latter document contains the information you need
to operate your starship; without it, you could find yourself in deep space
with  no  way  out.   Guard  it  carefully.   Needless to say, it is highly
confidential and is, if you will excuse the old cliche, For Your Eyes Only.
The  briefing  transcript  is  included  for  the background information it
contains.   It  was decided to provide this information in this form rather
than  as  a  summary,  to give the absent members a sense of the atmosphere
that prevailed during the meeting.

As  you  know,  Interstel is in no position to outfit starships as fully as
you  might  like; consequently, a lot hinges on you entrepreneurial ability
to generate revenues early on.  You will then be able to use those revenues
to  outfit  your  starship  for more distant (and more profitable) voyages.
The following are a few suggestions in that direction:

Your  initial  allotment  of 12,000 mu's is enough to allow you to buy four
cargo  pods, and to gather and train a crew.  Your ship comes equipped with
one Class 1 engine and 20 cubic meters of endurium, so you won't need to do
anything  to  your starship except name it.  We suggest you train your crew
with  the  funds you have remaining after you purchase the cargo pods.  You
will  then  be in a good position to mine the minerals found on the planets
in  our own solar system.  Fill the cargo pods with minerals and bring them
back to Starport, where you will find willing buyers.  We realize that some
of  you may find this strictly commercial endeavour somewhat degrading, but
we  have  found  that  it  is  necessary  in order to complete your primary
mission.   Of  course, you are free to follow whatever strategy you see fit
--  just  be aware that Interstel cannot afford to give you a second chance
should you fail in your first attempt.

No  matter  what  strategy  you  choose  to  adopt, it is wise to avoid the
following, any one of which can spell disaster:

1.  Running out of fuel
2.  Running out of energy in your terrain vehicle
3.  Running out of money
4.  Getting killed in combat
5.  Landing on a planet with crushing gravity
6.  Engine or communication failures
8.  Getting killed on planetside by storms or hostile lifeforms

In  addition,  we  recommend  that  you  check  your  Notices  in  Starport
Operations  before  embarking on a journey.  Notices often contain valuable
clues, and may help you avoid potential disaster.

On  behalf  of  all  the personnel here at Interstel headquarters, we would
like to wish you great success in your mission.

May the Rock of Truth shine brightly upon you.

    Terrence Willwater
    Director, Interstel

BRIEFING TRANSCRIPT
(The  following  is  a  transcript of a briefing before a group of starship
commander  trainees.   The briefing was chaired by Vice-Director Phexipotex
and included and cross-representation of various races).

Phexipotex:  Thank you for coming everyone.  Please be seated.

You  have all been carefully selected for your special skills and abilities
and  your  aptitudes  in  the  areas  of diplomacy and exploration.  We are
counting  on  this  driving force inherent in all of you to help answer the
puzzles and riddles that have long plagued our scientists.

While  conducting  research  in  the Southern Hot Zone 15 years ago, on the
sixteenth  day  of  ten-month, 4604, a team of Interstel scientists found a
deep  shaft  in  the  crust  of  the  planet, leading to a vast and ancient
underground network.  Investigation revealed this to have been built by ...
the first colonists of Arth.

People,  please!   May I have some quiet ...  Thank you.  I assure you that
this  conclusion  was  reached  only after many years of careful study.  At
this point there is little room for doubt that Arth was, in fact, colonized
by  a  group  called  Noah 2, and that this group came from a planet called
Earth.   I'm  sure  you can all appreciate now why this information has not
been  released to the public.  Obviously, it is vital that up to date proof
be offered when we commence public announcements, otherwise the notion that
Earth  was  a  real place and that Noah 2 an actual group would be met with
skepticism,  to  say  the  least.   I  realize that the acceptance of a new
system  of  beliefs  and of new technological concepts is a difficult task.
Many  of you may still be skeptical -- this is perfectly understandable.  I
only  ask  you  to  bear  with me for now.  After this briefing you will be
seeing  some  holo-footage  which  will, I think, cast any doubts from your
minds.   And, of course, when you begin your explorations you will be using
the new technology yourselves.

As  you might imagine, this discovery answers a good many questions; but it
also  raises quite a few.  There was an Old Empire and a Great Interstellar
War.   From what we have been able to piece together it appears that during
the final stages of the war, when the Empire was facing imminent defeat, an
ambitious project, Project Noah, was launched by an organization then known
as  the  Institute.   The  reasons  for  the  war,  for Noah 2's failure to
maintain  their  level  of technology, and for the Empire's final fate have
not  yet  been  determined.   We have, however, found several references to
"Uhlek", "Gazurtoid", and "Phlegmak" and believe these to be names of races

which  were hostile to the Empire -- possibly responsible for its downfall.
Further  evidence  confirms the theory that the Humans, Elowan, Thrynn, and
Velox  (referred to then as the Veloxi) were all part of the Old Empire and
were represented in the Noah 2 group.

In  addition to the historical data, we have uncovered sufficient technical
data  to  let  us  reconstruct some of the Old Empire technology.  The most
significant  area  of  this  technology  has  focused  on peculiar lumps of
crystaline  matter  which  the  Empire  called  Endurium.   It  was on this
substance  (unlike  any  we have ever encountered) that their superphotonic
(or faster than light) technology was based.  Fortunately, there was enough
Endurium  in  the  underground  colony to allow us to experiment freely and
actually  construct  a  few  prototype starships.  Yes, we have constructed
starships,  and  superphotonic technology does work.  The next phase of our
experimentation  involves  exploration.   Our scientists and the public are
eager for answers.

In  front  of  each  of  you  is  a  Captain's  Technical Reference Manual.
Information  relevant  to your mission can be found in the main body of the
text;  other information allowing a deeper understanding of those with whom
you  will deal has been compiled by our researchers and can be found in the
Appendices.   Should  you  decide  to participate in the exploration of the
unknown,  you  will be given command of a ship and your choice of crew.  As
an  additional incentive you will be paid for any discoveries you make; you
may  use  this  money to purchase anything you desire or to train your crew
and modify your ship further.

One  final  note:   you are not the first Interstel exploration group.  The
first  group,  which consisted of 13 ships and 78 explorers, was dispatched
five years ago.  To date, only two of these ships have returned and we have
had no word as to the status of the others.  Because each ship was carrying
only  enough  fuel  for a one year journey we must assume that they are ...
well,  that  they  will  not  be returning.  Nevertheless, in the past five
years  we have made significant advances in starship technology and you are
a  much  more capable group than the first.  We are confident that you will
have no major difficulties in successfully completing your missions.

I  would  now  like  to  open  this  briefing to questions.  Yes, Navigator
Eshhh-ahhr.

Eshhh-ahhr:   Vice-Director  Phexipotex,  you  mentioned that two ships had
returned  from  earlier  explorations.  Is there anything that you might be
able to tell us of their experiences that would be of interest?

Phexipotex:   It  so  happens  that one of the captains of those vessels is
here  among  us,  Captain  Thyss Thyrrthynnn of the ISS Hyperion.  Captain,
would you mind standing up and answering this question?

Thysss  Thyrrthynnn:   Cccertainly.   It  iss  difficult to know wherrre to
beginn.   Ourrr voyage lasssted forr the betterr parrt of two yearrsss.  As
it  happened we chose initially to trrravel in a downssspin dirrection with
a  14  degree  corewarrd  orientationnn.  Ourr firsst encounterr with alien
vesselsss  was  jusst  corewarrd  of a G-class ssysstem at 150,64.  We were
sssurrounded  by  three  ssout  shippsss  of avery peculiarr dessign.  Upon
entering  communicationss  we were asstonisshed to find that these sshipsss
were  manned  by  Elowannn.  We were even morre asstounded to find that the
Elowannn  have nnot outfrouwnn theirrr foolish animosity forr the Thrynn as
have  the  Elowann herre on Arrrth.  Thisss wass evedenced by the fact that
ssshortly affter communcationsss were essstablisshed the Elowan ssent uss a
message  to the effect that they could detect my pressence annd that of the
otherrr   Tyrynn   aboarrd  the  Hyperrionn,  wherreupon  they  immediately
terrminated  communicationsss annd opened airre on usss.  Fortunately I had
equipped    the    Hyperrionn    with   adequate   wweaponrry   to   handle
thisss...annoyancce.   In  fact,  I  consequenntly  found  it  necessary to
desstroy  quite  a  numberrr of Elowann shipsss; purely in sself-defense of
courssse.  Mossst rregrretable.

Phexipotex:  Please!  Please!  May I have order!  I am certain that Captain
Thyrrthynn  resorted to the use of force only when absolutely necessary.  I
am  confident  that  she acted only in good faith and never fired the first
shot - is this not so Captain?

Thysss  Thyrrthynn:   Of courssse.  Though it was necesssary upcon ccertain
occassionsss  to...   Phexipotex:  There, you see?  Now please, may we have
some quiet so that the Captain can continue her narration?

Thysss  Thyrrthynnn:   Yesss.   Well  durring  the  sssecond month of ourrr
explorationss  we  altered  courrssse  and  trravelled  in  an outwarrd and
downsspin  dirrection.   It  was  only  a  matterrr  of  weekss  before  we
encounterred  ourr  ssecond  alienn  rrrace.   Thesse alienss werre harrdly
alienn  howeverr, for thisss time we had encountered the Thrynn.  It isss a
difficult  thing  to desscrribe how it feelss to come faccce to faccce with
oness  remote ancestorrsss.  To feel that one hass finally come home affter
being lossst for a thoussand yearsss.  After ssspending the nexxt yearr and
an  half  among my lossst brrotherss and ssistersss it was all that I could
do  to forrce mysself to returrn herre.  In fact, both of the otherr Thrynn
on my crrew, ThyssArrla and N'qrrlsss chose to ssstay behinnnd.

Phexipotex:  Question?  Yes, in the back.

G694337:  If I may put a question to Captain Thryrrthynnn.  What did you do
for fuel all this time Captain?  I understand you did not take along enough
to last the entire two years.

Thysss  Thyrrthynnn:  Of courrsse.  We did manage to buy a fairrr bit frrom
Ssstarport  by  doing ssome local ssectorrr mining beforre leaving on ourrr
expeditionn.   During  ourr time in Elowannn sspacce we managed to ssalvage
enough  ennndurrium  from  the debris of the shippss we desstroyed in sself
defensse.   We  alsso sssalvaged a conssiderable amount of plutoniumm which
the  Thrynn  willingly  trraded  forrr fuel.  Finally, with the help of the
Thrynn we managed to llocate a few planetsss with abundant ancient ruinsss.
 These we used as refueling basesss for local explorationsss.

Phexipotex:  We have time for one more question.  Ok....yes.

Garan  Leb:   A  question  for  you,  Vice-Director.  I wonder if you could
explain  why  it  is necessary that we earn the money to build our ship and
crew.   Surely  Interstel  has  the  resources  to provide us with the best
equipment which would optimize our chance for success.

Phexipotex:   I would like to remind you that Interstel is not a government
controlled  organization,  nor  are we a military operation.  Our resources
are,  in  fact, limited and we have no way of knowing which few of you will
possess  the  necessary  qualities  to successfully command an Interstellar
Starship.   It is not in our best interest to waste what other resources we
have  on  the  rest  of you who will, pardon the expression, wash out right
away.   This  therefore,  is our means of determining who among you is most
capable,  while  at  the same time providing a little personal incentive to
ensure that we get the most from every one of you.

I wish you all the best of luck in your explorations.  Thank you.

TECHNICAL REFERENCE MANUAL

 TABLE OF CONTENTS

 1.0  General Information

  1.1  Objectives..................................... 1
  1.2  Races.......................................... 2
  1.3  Skills Overview................................ 6

 2.0  Starport

  2.1  Overview....................................... 8
  2.2  Starport Modules............................... 9
   2.2.1  Operations........................... 9
   2.2.2  Trade Depot.......................... 9
   2.2.3  Personnel............................ 9
   2.2.4  Crew Assignment...................... 10
   2.2.5  Bank................................. 10
   2.2.6  Ship Configuration................... 10
   2.2.7  Docking Bay.......................... 12

 3.0  Interstel Superphotonic Starship

  3.1  Ship's Console................................. 13
   3.1.1  Main View Screen..................... 14
   3.1.2  Auxiliary View Screen................ 14
   3.1.3  Control Panel........................ 14
   3.1.4  Text Window.......................... 14
  3.2  Flight Operations.............................. 14
   3.2.1  Captain.............................. 14
   3.2.2  Science Officer...................... 16
   3.2.3  Navigator............................ 18
   3.2.4  Engineer............................. 19
   3.2.5  Communications Officer............... 19
   3.2.6  Doctor............................... 21

 4.0  Space

  4.1  General Information............................ 22
   4.1.1  Hyperspace........................... 22
   4.1.2  Star Approach........................ 22
   4.1.3  Planet Approach...................... 22
   4.1.4  Tactical Level....................... 22
  4.2  Alien Encounters............................... 22
   4.2.1  Communications....................... 23
   4.2.2  Combat............................... 23

 5.0  Planetside

  5.1  Planetfall..................................... 24
  5.2  Planetside..................................... 24
   5.2.1  Maps................................. 24
   5.2.2  Move................................. 24
   5.2.3  Cargo................................ 24
   5.2.4  Look................................. 25
   5.2.5  Scan................................. 25
   5.2.6  Weapons.............................. 25
   5.2.7  Icons................................ 25
  5.3  Planetary Conditions........................... 25
   5.3.1  Temperature.......................... 25
   5.3.2  Gravity.............................. 26
   5.3.3  Atmosphere........................... 26
   5.3.4  Water................................ 26
   5.3.5  Atmosphere Activity.................. 26
   5.3.6  Bio-Density.......................... 26
   5.3.7  Minerals............................. 26

 Appendix A:  Planetary Charts............................ 27
  1.  Spectral Chart............................... 27
  2.  Planet Surface Chart......................... 27
  3.  Mineral Value Chart.......................... 27
  4.  Lifeform Value Chart......................... 28

 Appendix B:  Energy Usage Chart.......................... 29

 Appendix C:  Religious Writings of Arth.................. 30

 Appendix D:  Excerpt from Captain's Log, Noah 2
      Expedition............................ 32

 Appendix E:  Timeline.................................... 33

PART 1:  GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1  OBJECTIVES
Apart  from  any other goals you may set for yourself, two goals will be of
primary  importance  to  you.   These  are:   1)  gathering  information 2)
generating  revenue.   It  should  be obvious that the more information you
gather,  the  more effective your explorations.  As for revenue, capital is
indispensible  for  building  an  optimal ship and crew, thereby maximizing
your  efficiency.  Interstel offers only a minimum amount of capital at the
outset of your explorations.

You  can  generate revenue (measured in monetary units or mu's) in a number
of   ways.    The   following  is  a  partial  list.   Commanders  with  an
entrepreneurial  bent  should  find  no  difficulty expanding the list.  Of
course, space piracy is frowned upon, except in self defense.

1.1.1  Sale  of  Minerals.   Interstel will purchase any minerals you bring
back.   Some,  for  example Endurium, are worth more than others.  You will
need  to decide which ones are worth bringing back.  The values of minerals
can  be  found  in the Mineral Value Chart in Part 5 ("Planetside") of this
Reference Manual.

1.1.2  Sale  of  Artifacts.  Interstel will pay for any artifacts you find,
whether  contemporary  or  ancient.   The  amount of mu received depends on
Interstel's  evaluation  of  the  artifact.   Note  that you can repurchase
artifacts previously sold.

1.1.3  Sale  of Lifeforms and Lifeform Data.  Alien lifeforms can either be
captured or holographically recorded, and then sold at Starport.  Specimens
bring  a  higher price than recordings, but take up cargo space.  Interstel
will not purchase specimens or recordings already in its collection.

1.1.4  Recommending  Viable  Colony  Worlds.   Superphotonic message drones
installed  in  the  ships  can  be  used  to  recommend planets that appear
suitable  for colonization.  Do not take this responsibility lightly, since
the  lives  of  thousands of colonists may depend upon your recommendation.
When  you  return to Starport you will be given a report on the suitability
of   your  recommendations.   Should  your  recommended  planets  be  found
unsuitable, you will be fined.

The   rest   of   this  manual  contains  valuable  information,  including
descriptions  of the races found on Arth, a list of mineral values, a chart
of specific lifeform evaluations aids, and the criteria to be used
in  determining  the  suitability  of  a planet for colonization.  Study it
well, for the future of the galaxy may well depend upon the success of your
mission.

Your  kit contains two additional items:  First, the Starmap, an invaluable
guide  to  the  galaxy, provides important information on space coordinates
and  interstellar  distances.   Keep  it  handy  at all times.  Second, the
Security  Code  Wheel  provides  the  access  code that allows you to leave
Starport.    (This  protection  was  removed  in  the  Amiga  version)  See
instructions for its use in the Command Summary reference card.

1.2  RACES
You  can  choose from the following races of Arth when composing your crew.
Each  category  includes  a  descriptive  synopsis  and some characteristic
statistics.  These statistics include:

     Learning  Rate:   a number from 0 to 10 which represents the number of
     skill  points  a  member  of that race acquires from a single training
     session;

     Durability:   a  number  from  0  to 10 which represents the amount of
     physical damage a member of that race can sustain;

     Inherent  Aptitude:   the  innate  ability for each race in any of the
     five  skills.  The range of abilities is Excellent, Good, Average, and
     Poor.   The  Initial Value defines the beginning skill levels, and the
     Maximum Value defines the maximum skill level a member of that race is
     capable of attaining.  The values are tabulated as follows:

 Ability Level     Initial Value    Maximum Value

 Excellent    50                                  250
 Good                           30                                     200
 Average     10         150
 Poor      0                                     100

See Section 1.3 ("Skills Overview") for a description of the five essential
skills and their roles in the successful exploration of space.

HUMAN
Humans are a bi-pedal omnivorous race with smooth skin and a characteristic
matt  of  scalp  hair.  They are 1-1/2 to 2 meters in height, and are light
beige  to  dark  brown  in color.  Humans have an internal skeleton and two
small,  narrow-set  eyes  which  allow  binocular  vision.   This  race  is
particularly  aggressive  and tenacious.  While moderately weak physically,
Humans   are  highly  flexible  mentally  and  are  particularly  adept  at
theoretical  modeling and in applications of logic and inference.  Finally,
although  there  is  a  degree  of  sexual  dimorphism  in  this  race, the
differences are insignificant.

 Durability    06
 Learning Rate    09
 Inherent Aptitude:
  Science    Excellent
  Navigation   Good
  Engineering   Good
  Communication   Good
  Medicine   Good

VELOX
The  Velox  are  insect-like  creatures  with  two  legs, two arms, and two
intermediate  appendages  which can serve as either.  They have a hard, red
chitinous  exoskeleton,  two  large  compound  eyes, and two antennae which
serve  as  olfactory  sensors.   When  in  an  upright  position a Velox is
approximately  1-1/2  meters  in height if male and 2-1/2 meters if female.
Velox  culture  is  akin  to  hive  culture  and  they  are not known to be
particularly  intelligent.   They  are,  however,  exceptionally strong and
durable  and  they  have excellent hand/eye coordination.  These traits, in
conjunction  with a well developed spatial sense, make them well suited for
engineering and technical tasks.

 Durability    08
 Learning Race    06
 Inherent Aptitude:
  Science    Good
  Navigation   Excellent
  Engineering   Excellent
  Communication   Poor
           Medicine   Poor

THRYNN
The Thrynn are a bi-pedal, carnivorous, reptilian race.  Although graceful,
with  long  necks  and  tails.  they are very muscular and are covered with
tough  protective  scales.   They range in color from green to grey and are
approximately  1-1/2  meters in height.  Like Humans, they have an internal
skeleton,   and  two  forward  set  eyes.   The  Thrynn  are  cultured  and
diplomatic,  but  are  said  to  be  devious  and cunning.  For no apparent
reason, they harbor an ancient animosity for the Elowan.  The plant people,
in  turn,  have  little  love for the Thrynn (see note below).  They Thrynn
have  a  fair overall learning rate and a fair constitution.  They excel in
situations involving protocol and diplomacy.

 Durability    06
 Learning Rate    07
 Inherent Aptitude:
  Science    Good
  Navigation   Good
  Engineering   Good
  Communication   Excellent
  Medicine   Poor

ELOWAN
The  Elowan  are  a  bi-pedal photosynthetic race, 1 to 2 meters in height.
They  are willowy and delicate with numerous prehensile vines.  Their color
may  range from a light yellowish-green to a deep greenish blue.  They have
two large, compound eyes which are characteristically a deep reddish-brown.
They   are  highly  empathetic  and  are  particularly  creative  thinkers.
Although  weak  physically,  they  excel  in  interpersonal  skills.  Their
excellent learning rate allows them to learn all skills relatively quickly.

 Durability    02
 Learning Rate    10
 Inherent Aptitude:
  Science    Average
  Navigation               Good
  Engineering   Average
  Communication   Excellent
  Medicine   Excellent

ANDROID
Androids  are  sophisticated automatons and not, strictly speaking, a race.
Because  they  are  constructed  of  metals  and plastics they are the most
durable  of  all the races.  At the same time, however, they cannot benefit
from  training because their programming is hard-wired and their skills are
set  at  a  fixed  efficiency  level.   Of  the  numerous models available,
Interstel uses the popular Biosynthetic DX99 series, best suited for use in
tasks requiring straight-forward computation and linear analysis.

 Durability    10
 Learning Rate    00
 Fixed Skill Levels:
  Science    50
  Navigation   150
  Engineering   100
  Communication   00
  Medicine   20

Note:   Because of the ancient enmity between the Elowan and the Thrynn, it
is  not  advisable to include a member of each race on your crew.  Although
the  individual members of these two races would undoubtedly deal with each
other  civilly  on board your ship, you would be unable to communicate with
either race in a space encounter.  This is because the presence of a member
of one race precludes any useful communication with the other race.

1.3  SKILLS OVERVIEW
Crew members (except for Androids, see Races, above) can be trained in five
essential  skills:   science,  navigation, engineering, communications, and
medicine.   All  training  is  done  in  Personnel.  A given crew members's
functioning  of  your  vessel, with the most important being Communication,
Science and Navigation.  Following is a brief description of each skill and
its relevance to your crew.

Science:    Your  ship's  sensors  are  your  primary  means  of  gathering
information,  and  it  is the duty of the Science Officer to interpret that
information.   The  more  skilled  a  Science Officer the more complete and
accurate will be the information from the sensor reading.  This information
can  be of vital importance (e.g., an alien vessel's military capability; a
planet's suitability as a potential colony world).  At skill levels greater
than  150,  a Science Officer can detect aliens over long distances and can
pinpoint their position.

Navigation:   Navigation is of primary importance to space travel.  Without
an effective Navigator you face the danger of becoming lost in space.  This
may  result in the loss of precious time and fuel and may even place you in
hostile  territory.   In  addition, a skilled navigator (with a skill level
greater  than 150) can determine the presence of continuum fluxes in space.
These  fluxes  are paired and connected by extra-dimensional worm-holes, so
that  by entering one of a pair of fluxes, your vessel will be transported,
almost  instantaneously,  to  the  other.  Although continuum fluxes can be
useful  in  navigation (since a highly-skilled navigator can take advantage
of  their  ability to transport you instantaneously), than can also be very
hazardous.  A poorly trained Navigator will have difficulty spotting fluxes
and  may  even  cause your vessel to hit one accidentally.  Navigators with
skill  levels  of  150  or  below  will not be able to see them at all.  In
addition,  after transportation through a flux, it takes the Navigator time
to  determine the ship's new position.  The more skilled the Navigator, the
less  time  it  will take and the less risk your crew will face.  It is the
Navigator who fire the ship's missiles and lasers; the more skilled the
navigator,  the  greater  the  accuracy  of  the  shot.   Finally,  if your
Navigator's  skill  is  less than 200, your terrain vehicle may become lost
during storms on a planets surface.

Engineering:   It  is  your  Engineer's responsibility to repair any damage
your  ship  sustains.   The speed and efficiency with which the repairs are
executed depends on the Engineer's skill rating.  In addition, key elements
may  be required for repairs, and the longer a repair takes, the higher the
probability  that  one of these elements will be required.  Repairs must be
suspended until the missing element is obtained.  All the elements that may
be required for repairs can be obtained in the Trade Depot at Starport (see
Part 2, below).

Communications:   Alien  races  will be your primary source of information.
The  Communications Officer interprets all communications using an on-board
translating  device.  The less skilled the Communications Officer, the more
untranslated  material  you  can  expect to receive.  It is also helpful if
your  Communications  Officer (and to a lesser extent any of the other crew
members)  is  a  member of the alien race with which you are communicating.
Thus,   if  one  of  your  crew  is  a  member  of  the  alien  race,  your
Communications  Officer's  skill  level will be effectively increased by 25
points  during the encounter.  And if the Communications Officer happens to
be  a member of the alien race, his skill level is effectively increased by
50 points.

Medicine:  Your Doctor's skill level determines the speed and efficiency of
his  medical  treatment.  Even though your ship is equipped with the latest
in  Medi-Tech  devices,  it is the Doctor's skill level that determines the
speed  and  efficiency  of  the treatment.  The higher the skill level, the
less  time it will take to treat a wound.  All injuries heal naturally over
the  course  of  time  at  a rate proportional to the Doctor's skill level.
Planetside  treatment  can never equal shipboard treatment where the Doctor
has access to Medi-Tech equipment.

The  Captain:   Although there is no single "command" skill, your Captain's
combined  skill  levels  in the above five areas contributes to your ship's
apparent  power.   A  highly  skilled  captain  can effectively double your
ship's  perceived  power.   Also, if any of your crew should be killed, the
next   most  capable  crewmember  will  take  over  the  dead  crewmember's
functions.  Training your captain can therefore provide backup skills.

PART 2:  STARPORT

2.1  OVERVIEW
The  Starport  is your stepping stone to the universe, the place where each
new  adventure  begins and ends.  At the Starport you can select your crew,
outfit  your  ship,  read  your  messages, make financial arrangements, and
generally  take  care of all your affairs before launching into space.  The
Starport  consists  of  six  independent  modules  and a docking bay.  Each
module  provides  you with a number of options, each one corresponding to a
particular  operation  or  activity.   To  enter  a  module,  maneuver your
character to the module's entry field (the small area like a welcome mat in
front  of  the  door) and press a key.  See the enclosed reference card for
details.   The  modules  are described in detail below.  Refer to Figure 1,
below.

                    -------------------------------
                   /           PERSONNEL           \
                  /                                 \
                 /                                   \
                /                                     \
            OPERATIONS                                CREW
              /                                    ASSIGNMENT
             /                                           \
            |                                             |
            |                                             |
            |                   DOCKING                   |
            |                     BAY                     |
            |                                             |
            |                                             |
            |                                             |
             \                                           /
              \                                         /
           TRADE DEPOT                                 BANK
                \                                     /
                 \               SHIP                /
                  \          CONFIGURATION          /
                   \------------------------------ /
FIGURE 1:  STARPORT

2.2  STARPORT MODULES

2.2.1  OPERATIONS
In  Operations you can receive message from Interstel, and have your colony
world recommendations evaluated.  The following options are available:

 Notices -- This option lets you read the messages in your electronic
 mailbox. Messages can provide clues regarding alien encounters,
 possible colony world recommendations, locations of continuum fluxes,
 etc.

 Evaluation   --   Use this option to evaluate your colony world
 recommendations, and to be informed of fines levied.

 Exit -- Returns you to the Starport amphitheater.

2.2.2  TRADE DEPOT
At  the  Trade  Depot  you  can  buy  or sell commodities or artifacts, and
analyze  any  artifacts  in  inventory,  whether  your  or Starport's.  The
following options are available:

 Buy -- Shows items that are for sale, and their cost per cubic meter.

 Sell  --  Shows all the salable items in your inventory except ship
 components.

 Analyze  --  Describes all artifacts listed for sale.  Will also
 describe, for a fee, any artifacts in the Depot's inventory, and all
 those in your ship's hold.

 Exit -- Returns you to the Starport amphitheater.

2.2.3  PERSONNEL
The  Personnel  module  controls the selection and training of crewmembers,
and  the  maintenance  of  all  personnel files.  The following options are
available:

     Create -- Use this option to select the members of your crew.  You can
     select  crewmembers  from  any  of the five races described above (see
     Section  1.2).   Each  crewmember  has  his or her own personnel file,
     containing statistics on race, skill levels, training and so on.

     Train  -- Use this option to train your crewmembers in any of the five
     skill  areas  outlined above (see Section 1.3).  Skill levels increase
     in accordance with the following formula:  number of training sessions
     times  learning  rate.   Note  that  training  is  expensive, and that
     initial  capital  provided by Interstel may not allow you to train all
     your crewmembers to the highest skill levels.

     Delete -- This option delete all the data from the selected file.
     Note  that any funds expended in training a deleted crewmember are not
     refunded upon deleting the file.

     Exit -- Returns you to the Starport amphitheater.

2.2.4  CREW ASSIGNMENT
Any  assignment  or change in the duties of your crewmembers takes place in
the  Crew Assignment module.  Her you can page through your personnel files
na  make  or  change any assignments.  Each crewmember is summarized on the
cover of his or her personnel file, which is displayed on the lower part of
the  screen.   Duties and current assignments (if any) are displayed on the
upper part of the screen.  You can assign a crewmember to a particular duty
when  that crewmember's file is on the screen and when the required duty is
highlighted on the upper part of the screen.  Once you assign a crewmember,
the  "highlight  bar"  moves down to the next position.  When al the duties
have  been assigned, the highlight bar disappears and you can return to the
Starport  amphitheater.   See your reference card for details.  If you want
to change any assignments above the highlight bar, exit Crew Assignment and
reenter.

2.2.5  BANK
Here  you can examine your bank records, in the form of your 10 most recent
financial  transactions,  showing  dates,  descriptions,  amounts  and your
ending  balance.   If  your ending balance is negative, and you need to buy
engines  or Endurium, you will need to sell off inventory in order to leave
the Starport.  You may not buy anything on credit.

2.2.6  SHIP CONFIGURATION
Here  you can outfit your ship, repair damage, sell old equipment, and name
(or rename) you ship.  You can choose from the following options:

 Buy -- Use this option to outfit your ship with cargo pods, engines,
 shields, missiles and laser cannons. The  following equipment is
 available for purchase (given sufficient funds):

 Cargo Pods:  Cargo pods can hold 50 cubic meters of  cargo.  Only
 one  class  of  pod  is available, at a cost of 500 mu.  Tip:  as
 soon  as you can afford it, buy a pod, fill it with fuel and take
 it with you.  It will extend your effective range.

 Engines:   you  can  choose from five classes of engines, ranging
 from  class 1 (1,000 mu) to Class 5 (100,000 mu).  The higher the
 class,  the better the fuel efficiency and the greater the ship's
 acceleration during encounters.

 Shielding:   Shields  provide protection during combat, and range
 from  Class 1 (4,000 mu) to Class 5 (125,000 mu).  The higher the
 class,  the  more  effective  they are against enemy missiles and
 laser  cannons.   Shielding  uses  energy, and shields need to be
 raised  and  lowered (by the Navigator) as circumstances dictate.
 (A good Navigator should not be caught with his shields down, but
 neither  should he keep them raised unnecessarily).  In addition,
 shields  are  more  expensive than armor (see below), and they do
 not  function  in  nebulas.  On the positive side, shields do not
 slow  your  ship  down with a lot of weight (as does armor), they
 can  be  repaired  if  damaged,  and  they automatically recharge
 slowly during each encounter.

 Armor:   Armor  provides  alternative  protection  during combat.
 Unlike  shields  (see  above,  armor weighs a great deal and will
 slow  your  vessel  down.   In addition, armor cannot be repaired
 when  damaged, and must be replaced.  On the positive side, armor
 is  cheaper  than shielding (Class 1:  1,500 mu to Class 5 25,000
 mu), it is always in place, and continues to function in nebulas.
 Missiles:   Missiles  cost more than lasers (see below), they can
 be dodged, and they use five times as much energy when fired.  On
 the  positive  side,  missiles  inflict three times the damage of
 lasers,  and they are effective at long range.  Missile launchers
 cost  more  than laser cannons, ranging from 12,000 mu to 200,000
 mu.

 Lasers:   Lasers  are  strictly  short  range  weapons,  and they
 inflict  less  damage  than  missiles.   On the other hand, laser
 cannons are cheaper that missile launchers (ranging from 8,000 to
 150,000 mu), and they cannot be dodged.

 Sell  -- This option lets you sell the components of your ship, so
        you can buy a higher (or lower) class item.  Note that depreciation
        begins the  moment you buy an item, so that your selling price will
        always be lower  than  your purchase price (with the possible
        exception of cargo pods).

 Repair -- This option offers you quick dry-dock repairs. Be prepared
 for the high cost of this convenience.


 Name  --  Use this option to name or rename your ship. Unchristened
 ships may not leave Starport.


 Exit -- Returns you to the Starport amphitheater.

2.2.7  DOCKING BAY
When  you are ready to launch your ship into space, maneuver your character
onto  the  docking bay in the center of the amphitheater (see Figure 1) and
press  a  key.  Starport will direct you from there.  Remember to keep your
Security Code Wheel handy as you leave Starport.

PART 3:  INTERSTEL SUPERPHOTONIC STARSHIP

3.1  SHIP'S CONSOLE
              ----------------------------------------------
              |                      |                     |
              |                      |     AUXILIARY       |
              |      MAIN VIEW       |    VIEW SCREEN      |
              |       SCREEN         |                     |
              |                      |---------------------|
              |                      |[] |                 |
              |                      |[] |                 |
              |----------------------|[] |    CONTROL      |
              |                       [] |     PANEL       |
              | (-)                   [] |                 |
              |                       [] |-----------------|
              |--------------------------------------------|
              |                 TEXT WINDOW                |
              |--------------------------------------------|

FIGURE 2:  SHIP'S CONSOLE
The  Ship's Console is divided into four main areas.  The Main View Screen,
the  central viewing area for the main spatial displays and communications;
the  Auxiliary View Screen, for viewing ship status and sensor information;
the  Control  Panel for executing commands through an array of buttons; and
the  Text  Window,  where  all the text messages are displayed.  These four
areas  are  described  in  detail  below.   An  additional area, above Main
Screen, displays your coordinates in space.  The first number displays your
horizontal position, and the second your vertical position.

3.1.1  MAIN VIEW SCREEN
This  screen  displays  spacial and communications information.  On it your
computer  will display tactical information during encounters, contour maps
of  planets  from  orbit, and planet and stars during system and hyperspace
travel.  Planet size as reflected on this screen is to scale.

3.1.2  AUXILIARY VIEW SCREEN
This  screen  displays  Stars  and  Sensor  data from your Science Officer,
Officer,  and  Damage  and Repair information from your Engineer.  You will
also see system maps, Mercator projections and malfunction alerts displayed
here.

3.1.3  CONTROL PANEL
The  Control  Panel can execute all the main ship commands through an array
of  buttons.  Here you can select a crew member, and then select a function
associated with that crew member.

3.1.4  TEXT WINDOW
All  text  messages,  both incoming and outgoing, are presented here.  When
you enter a System the Text Window displays the following information:

    Spectral Class:  see Spectral Chart.
    Ecosphere:  The band of acceptable radiation around a star, capable of
    sustaining  lifebearing  planets.  Given in terms of orbital position.
    (e.g., Ecosphere, 2-4).

3.2  FLIGHT OPERATIONS
Ship  Functions  are  accessed  via  the  Control  Panel.   Each crewmember
controls  a  specific  set  of  ship  functions.   To  access  a particular
function,  you  first need to select the appropriate crewmember.  Following
is a brief description of all available functions classified by crewmember.

3.2.1  CAPTAIN
The  Captain  is the ultimate authority both in space and at Starport.  The
Captain decides when to launch or land the ship, which planets to recommend
to  Interstel,  and  when  to  disembark.  When you select Captain from the
Control Panel, you are provided with the following options:

     Launch/Land  --  This  option reads Launch until the ship has launched
     from  Starport  or  a planet, after which it reads Land.  The ship can
     only  land  from orbit.  Choosing Land presents you with the following
     options:

     Select  Site:   Allows  you to select a promising landing site on
     the  planet's  surface.   Move  the cursor, using the arrow keys,
     over  the  target landing site.  The planetary coordinates of the
     cursor's position will also be shown.  You will be aided by a map
     is  a  topography  key.   The color of the top bar represents the
     highest  altitude,  the  bottom  color represents liquid terrain.
     While  it  is possible to land and travel in liquid terrain it is
     not  recommended,  since  fuel efficiency is low and there are no
     minerals lifeforms to ruins to be found.

     Note:   Generally,  lifeforms tend to cluster in temperate climes
     at  the  lower  altitudes, and minerals are found in much greater
     density at higher altitudes.

     Descend:   This  option  engages  the  autopilot.   Descent  to a
     Planet's  surface  is automatic once the landing coordinates have
     been chosen in the Select Site option.

     Abort:  Returns you to Captain's option screen.

     Disembark -- This option allows the crew to leave the ship when it
                  has landed on a planet or docked at Starport.

     Cargo  --  This option allows the Captain to examine the current cargo
     list,  jettison  undesired  items,  and  pick up debris from destroyed
     alien  spaceships.   Note  that  any  item  jettisoned  is  considered
     destroyed  and  cannot be recovered.  Note also that messages obtained
     from ruins are considered cargo.

     Log  Planet -- This option allows the Captain to recommend a planet to
     Arth    for   colonization   via   a   superphotonic   homing   drone.
     Recommendations  may  be  made  either from orbit or from the planet's
     surface but can only be made once for any given planet.

     Ship's Log -- This option allows the Captain to read from and write to
     a personal ship's log.  There is a limited amount of space in the log.
     To quit this option move to EXIT and press the Return key.

     Bridge  --  This option is the same for all crew members, and restores
     you to the Control Panel so you can choose another function.

3.2.2  SCIENCE OFFICER
The Science Officer is responsible for gathering and analyzing all relevant
information  about  the  status  and  condition of the ship and well as its
surroundings.  When Science Officer is selected from the Control Panel, the
following options become available:

     Sensor -- This option provides various items of information, depending
     on  current status or location.  The Sensor is one of the main sources
     of  information  about  your  ship,  alien  ships,  and  planets.  The
     following  information  is available through the sensor, classified by
     location:

  IN ORBIT:

  Auxiliary View Screen:

  Mass:  Mass of planet (in tons).

  Bio:  Percentage of life density.

  Min:  Percentage of mineral density.

  Note:   100%  life  or  mineral  density  would  be the
  maximum  possible under that planet's geologic and life
  sustaining conditions.

  Text Window:

  Atmosphere:   Lists  the  main components of a planet's
  atmosphere,  in decreasing order (i.e., first listed is
  the primary component, etc.).

   Hydrosphere: Major components of a planet's liquid surface area.

   Lithosphere: Major minerals to be found on a planets land surface area.

  DURING AN ALIEN ENCOUNTER

  Auxiliary View Screen:

  Mass:  Mass of alien ship (in tons).

  Bio:   Displays  percentage  of  undamaged Lifeforms on
  board the alien vessel.  If 50 percent of the Lifeforms
  are dead, the display will read 50.

  Energy:  Undamaged percentage of alien ship.

  Text Window:

  Object  Constituents:   Displays the composition of the alien vessel.

     Analysis  --  Use  this option ot have the Science Officer present his
     analysis  of  sensor  data  he  has  gathered.   Note that the Science
     Officer  needs to take the corresponding sensor reading before you can
     exercise  this  option.   Analysis  data  is given below classified by
     location.

  IN ORBIT

   Text Window:

  Orbit  Number:   Each  star  has  eight  possible orbit
  positions,  ranging from Orbit Position #1 (the closest
  to  the  star) to Orbit Position # 8 (the furthest from
  the  star).   The  Orbit  Number  refers  to  the orbit
  position  (or  slot)  occupied  by  the  planet you are
  orbiting.   Not  all  positions  are occupied, so it is
  possible  that  a  planet  may  appear  to be the third
  planet  from  the  star,  when  in fact it is occupying
  Orbit Position #5.

            Predominant  Surface:   The  planet's  primary  surface
                                    constituent.

  Gravity:   show  the  planet's  gravitational force.  A
  gravity of more than 8.0 g's will crush you hull if you
  attempt to land on the planet.

  Atmosphere:   Shows  the  primary  constituents  of the
                              planet's atmosphere.

  Temperature:   Shows  the planet's possible temperature
                 range.

  Global  Weather:   Shows the predominant global weather
                            conditions.

 DURING AN ALIEN ENCOUNTER

 Text Window:

  Object:   States  the  general  nature  of  the object.
                          (e.g., SHIP)

  Type:   States  the general type of the object.  (e.g.,
   SCOUT)

  Size:  Gives the size of the object (in relation to the
   size of your ship).

              Shields:  Gives the alien vessel's shield status (e.g.,
   Equivalent of Class 3, raised).

  Weapons  Status:   Shows  whether  the  alien  vessel's
   weapons are armed.


     Status  --  This  option  presents  the  ship's  General Status on the
     Auxiliary  View  Screen.  The following information is provided on the
     Auxiliary View Screen:

                    Date:  Day.Hour-Month-Year.

  Damage:  Amount of damage sustained by your ship.

  Cargo:  Percentage of cargo hold full.

  Energy:   Displays  amount  of  Endurium  remaining, in
                          cubic meters.

  Shields:  States whether shields are up to down.

  Weapons:  States whether weapons are armed or unarmed.

 Bridge -- Return to Control Panel.

3.2.3  NAVIGATOR
The  Navigator  is  responsible for maneuvering the ship through space, for
raising  and  lowering  the ship's shields, and for arming or disarming the
ship  whenever  necessary.   In  addition, the Navigator is responsible for
firing  your  ship's weapons during combat.  When you choose Navigator from
the Control Panel, the following options become available:

     Maneuver  --  This  option  engages  the  navigational controls.  Once
     engaged,  you  can  maneuver  your ship by using the appropriate keys.
     See your Reference Card for details.

     Raise  Shield/Drop  Shield  -- This option reads Raise Shield when the
     shields are down and Drop Shield when they are up.  Shields use energy
     while they are up.

     Arm/Disarm  --  This  option  reads  Arm when weapons are disarmed and
     Disarm when the are armed.  Weapons must be armed before firing.

     Combat -- This option allows the Navigator to fire the ship's weapons,
     once  they have been armed (see above).  Once Combat has been engaged,
     you  can  aim by swiveling the nose of the ship.  Your ship also has a
     limited  Maneuver  capability  while  in the Combat option.  Fire your
     weapons  by  pressing  the  space bar.  If your ship has more than one
     kind  of  weapon,  the  on-board  combat  computer  will fire the most
     appropriate  one,  depending  on the range of the target.  To exit the
     combat option, press the Return key.

 Bridge -- Return to Control Panel.

3.2.4  ENGINEER
The  Engineer  is  responsible for surveying any damage to the ship and for
repairing  it.  Highly skilled engineers are capable of repairing more than
their  lesser  counterparts.   When  you  select  Engineer from the Control
Panel, the following options become available:

     Damage  --  This  option  displays the Engineer's damage report on the
     Auxiliary  View  Screen  Graphs  indicate  percent  of damage for each
     section of the ship.  Note that percent of damage is also equal to the
     percentage  probability that the damaged section will fail altogether.
     Thus  if a section of the ship has sustained 50 per cent damage, there
     is a 50 per cent probability of a total malfunction of that section.

 Repair -- This option allows the Engineer to repair damaged sections.

 Bridge -- Return to Control Panel.

3.2.5  COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER
The  Communications  Officer  is  responsible  for  all communications with
Interstel  as  well  as  with  alien  life forms encountered in space.  The
higher   a   Communications   Officer's   skill,  the  more  efficient  the
communications.   See Section 4.2 below for more information on alien space
encounters.  When you select communications Officer, you are presented with
the following options:

     Hail/Respond -- This reads Hail unless you have already been hailed by
     another   vessel,   in   which   case  it  would  read  Respond.   All
     Communications  activity is carried out through this option.  When you
     Hail/Respond you can adopt one of the following postures:

  Friendly
  Hostile
  Obsequious

     Your  message  will  be  transmitted  in  accordance  with  the chosen
     posture.   becoming  friendly  with  aliens can give you access to new
     information.  When you Respond (as appropriate), you can choose from:

 Statement:   If  you wish to make a statement of some kind.  Note
 that  statements  are more likely to affect the alien's attitudes
 than are questions.

 Question:   If  you  wish to ask a question.  You can choose from
 the following possible areas of inquiry:

   Themselves
   Other Races
   Old Empire
   Ancients
   General Information

 Posture:  To change your posture.  You do not need to select this
                  if you wish to maintain the same posture.

  Terminate:  To terminate communications.

     Distress  --  Launches a superphotonic homing drone to Starport.  This
     results  in  your  ship and crew being put in stasis and towed home by
     another Starport vessel.  These is a stiff fee for this service, which
     will vary depending on the distance you are towed.

 Bridge -- Return to Control Panel.

3.2.6  DOCTOR
The  ship's  doctor  is  responsible  for  examining  and  treating injured
crewmembers.   the  higher  the  doctor's skill level, the faster the cure.
Selecting  Doctor  from  the  Control Panel provides you with the following
options:

    Examine  --  This  option  allows the Doctor to study a readout of the
    physical condition of any of the crewmembers.

    Treat  --  This option allows the Doctor to treat injured crewmembers.
    Even  though natural healing will occur on board ship, selecting Treat
    will speed up the process.

 Bridge -- Return to Control Panel.

PART 4:  SPACE

4.1  GENERAL INFORMATION
All  navigation  and  maneuvering in space is effected with the help of the
main View Screen displays generated by the on-board computer.  The computer
provides spatial information at four different levels, as follows:

4.1.1  Hyperspace:  This is where interstellar travel occurs.  When you are
in  Hyperspace  you  can  see  stars  (see  Starmap), continuum fluxes, and
nebulae.   Note  that  the  size  of  a  star in hyperspace varies with its
spectral class (see Appendix A below).

4.1.2  Star  Approach:  Approaching a star lets you enter its solar system.
To  return  to  Hyperspace,  simply  maneuver past the edge of a system.  A
planet's  color  or  pattern  indicates  its  primary  surface  type.  (See
Appendix A below).

4.1.3  Planet  Approach:   Approaching a planet lets you establish an orbit
around it.  To enter into orbit around a planet, press any key when you are
over  the  planet's center.  To leave a planet's orbit, use the Navigator's
Maneuver option (The same applies to exit Starport).

4.1.4  Tactical  Level:   The  Tactical  level  is  automatically  obtained
whenever  an  encounter  occurs  with  an  alien vessel.  You can enter the
Tactical  level  from Hyperspace, from the solar system, or from orbit.  To
leave  an encounter you must continue traveling until the alien craft is no
longer visible on the screen.

4.2  ALIEN ENCOUNTERS
You  can  encounter  alien  vessels  at  any  time,  even  when  you are in
Hyperspace.  When that happens, you automatically drop from Hyperspace.  If
you  need  to  quit  an encounter, enter your Navigator's Maneuver mode and
move  away  from  the alien ship until it is no longer visible on your view
screen.   Note  that during an encounter, the alien ship can scan your ship
and  analyze  your  strengths  and  weaknesses, just as you can theirs.  In
particular,  they can detect if your shields are up and whether or not your
weapons are armed.  These may be interpreted as hostile gestures.

4.2.1  COMMUNICATIONS
Communicating  with  aliens  can  be an enlightening experience, to say the
least.  The main points on alien communication have already been covered in
Section  3.2.3  above.   Here  are  some  additional  hints  to  make  your
communications  more effective.  First, you can pause communications for up
to  two minutes by pressing the + key.  This will give you a little time to
gather  your  thoughts without the realtime clock ticking.  Second, not all
races respond optimally to the Friendly posture.  Experiment with different
postures  until  you  discover  the  most effective approach for each race.
Make  notes of any information you receive during each encounter, including
information  on the success or failure of a particular posture, as well and
general  information  that can help you to complete your mission.  Once you
develop  friendly  relations  with a race, they will be willing to give you
more information.

Finally,  note  that  not  every  member of a given race will have the same
knowledge  and  information as any other member of that race.  Feel free to
ask others the same question.

4.2.2  COMBAT
The  greater the number of combat incidences with any race, the less likely
it  is that you will ever be able to establish friendly communications with
that  race.   It sometimes pays to be friendly, or even obsequious, if that
doesn't  offend  your  sense  of dignity.  Note that some alien vessels are
impervious  to certain kinds of weapons, so even a direct hit may amount to
nothing  against  a  vessel immune to that kind of weapon.  Experience will
guide  you  on  the  correct choice of weapon under the circumstances.  And
while  you  may  be  able  to evade missile attacks, you cannot evade laser
fire.   Note  that  it  is not always desirable to completely destroy alien
vessels  during  combat.  If you cease combat and enter communications, the
aliens may surrender and tell you anything you want to know.

When  the  smoke  settles  from  a  hostile  encounter  (and  if you emerge
victorious)  you  can  pick  up any item of debris from the destroyed alien
spacecraft.   Have your Navigator Maneuver over to the craft, and then exit
Maneuver.   Enter  the  Captain mode, and select the Cargo option.  Pick up
any valuable debris.

For  more detailed information, refer to the Combat option of the Navigator
mode (Section 3.2.3, above).

PART 5:  PLANETSIDE

5.1  PLANETFALL
As  Captain,  you  can  give orders to make planetfall via the Land Option.
When  you  select  Land,  you ar presented with the options Site Select and
Descend,  as  well  as  a Mercator Projection of the surface of the planet.
Site  Select  allows you to choose your landing site, while Descend engages
the  auto-approach  sequence.  Se the Spectral and Planet Surface Charts is
Appendix A for selecting favorable planets and suitable landing sites.

5.2  PLANETSIDE
Once  on  the surface of the planet you have a number of options available.
These  are  listed  at  the bottom of the screen:  Maps, Move, Cargo, Look,
Scan, Weapons, and Icons.

5.2.1  Maps:   Your  Terrain  Vehicle is equipped with numberous sensors as
well  as  an  on  board  computer.   This computer is capable of generating
contour  maps  of  the  terrain  at three levels of magnification.  You can
toggle  between  these  three  levels  by pressing any key.  The colors (or
patterns)  on  these  maps represent different altitudes and surface types.
The key for these can be seen whenever the contour map is up.  It is a good
idea  to  check  Maps after the message Scanning New Terrain appears on the
screen.  Use right arrow key to leave this option.

5.2.2 Move:  This option returns control of the Terrain Vehicle's movement.
Move  your  terrain  vehicle by using the arrow keys.  Because of continual
need  for  life support and the limited capacity of your environment suits,
extended  travel on foot is not possible.  Your terrain vehicle has a small
reserve  fuel  supply sufficient to take you from 5 to 25 "steps" depending
on  terrain.   Fuel  efficiency is a function of altitude -- the higher the
altitude,  less  the  efficiency.   To  re-enter  the ship move the terrain
vehicle over it and press any non-arrow key.

5.2.3  Cargo:   This  presents  you  with  a  list of all the cargo you are
carrying  and gives you the option of dropping anything.  When an object is
dropped on a planet's surface it can be picked up again.  Cargo also allows
you to pick up any item (including Lifeforms) next to your terrain vehicle,
record  messages  found  in  Ruins,  and  make  holographic  recordings  of
Lifeforms.   You  must  be  directly beside an object to put it into Cargo.
Note  that  any  messages  you  find are identified by the date found.  The
cargo hold has a capacity of 50 cubic meters.

5.2.4  Look:   This  option  places  a moveable cursor on the tactical map,
allowing  you to examine any part of the terrain.  Move the cursor with the
arrow keys and press a key.

5.2.5  Scan:   This  option  places  a moveable cursor on the tactical map,
allowing  you  to scan the terrain using your sensors.  The results of your
scanning  are  made available in a readout.  Only lifeforms can be scanned.
Note  that  lifeforms are not distributed evenly over the planet's surface,
but  tend  to  clump  in  the  lower  elevations  near the equator or other
temperate  areas.  The configuration of lifeforms on a planet is consistent
with that planet's gravity.

5.2.6  Weapons:   Your  Terrain  Vehicle  is  equipped  with  a laser and a
stunner.   You  can  choose  which  one to fire through the Weapons option.
Bracket  the target by using the arrow keys, and fire by pressing any other
key.

5.2.7  Icons:   This  option  presents  a  key of all the icons used by the
Terrain  Vehicle  computer in the Tactical display, and a topographical key
for  the  planet.   It  also  lists the mineral, and the ancient and recent
ruins icons.

5.3  PLANETARY CONDITIONS
Recommending  a  planet for colonization requires assessment of a number of
variables.   Remember  that  if  you recommend a planet as habitable and it
turns out to be otherwise, you can incur heavy penalties.  The following is
a set of guidelines to help you make the right recommendations.

5.3.1  Temperature:   Some  portion  of  the  planet  must  fall  within  a
acceptable  temperature  range.   The  following  table  shows the range of
temperatures:

 SUB-ARCTIC
        ARCTIC
 TEMPERATE *
 TROPICAL  *
 SEARING
 INFERNO

Parts of a planet must fall within the highlighted range to be suitable for
colonization.

5.3.2  Gravity:   The  gravity of a planet must not be "crushing" and it is
preferable  if  it  is lighter than "very heavy." Gravity must be below 2.0
g's for a planet to be suitable for colonization --- .7 to 1.3 is optimal.

5.3.3  Atmosphere:   The  planet must have an atmosphere and the atmosphere
must contain Oxygen.

5.3.4  Water:  There must be at least a minimal amount of free water.

5.3.5  Atmospheric   Activity:   Planets  with   violent  or  very  violent
atmospheric  activity are unacceptable.  The following chart can serve as a
guide:

 NONE
 CALM *
 MODERATE *
 VIOLENT
 VERY VIOLENT

Weather  conditions  must  be  within the highlighted area to make a planet
suitable for colonization.

5.3.6  Bio-density:   Planets with a higher bio-density are more preferable
but this is not a necessity.

5.3.7  Minerals:    Planets   with  abundant   mineral  deposits  are  also
preferable, although this, too, is not a necessity.

*Note  that  a planet may be suitable in a number of ways but have just one
feature that makes it untenable as a colony world.

APPENDIX A:  PLANETARY CHARTS

1.  SPECTRAL CHART

   COLOR    CLASS

   Red    M (coolest)
   Orange    K
   Yellow    G
   White    F
   Green    A
   Light Blue   B
   Dark Blue   O (hottest)

2.  PLANET SURFACE CHART

   COLOR    TYPE

   Red    Molten
   Brown    Rock
   Blue    Ocean
   White    Frozen
   Violet    Gas Giant

3.  MINERAL VALUE CHART

   Lead    40
   Iron    60
   Cobalt*    80
   Nickel          100
   Copper          120
   Zinc          140
   Molybdenum*         160
   Tin          180
   Magnesium         200
   Aluminum*         220
   Titanium*         240
   Chromium                260
   Antimony         280
   Promethium*         300
   Mercury          320
   Tungsten         340
   Silver          360
   Gold          380
   Platinum         400
   Plutonium         420
   Rodnium          440
   Endurium        1000

* Repair Minerals

4.  LIFEFORM VALUE CRITERIA CHART

Use the following five criteria for judging the value of a lifeform:

New  Species:   It  must  be a species not previously captured or recorded.
Intelligence:   The more intelligent it is, the more valuable.  Niche:  The
                higher its position on the food chain, the more valuable it
  is.
Size:           The bigger it is, the more valuable.
Distance:       The  farther  away  from  Arth,  the greater the lifeform's
    value.

Note than you cannot capture flying or floating lifeforms.

APPENDIX B:  ENERGY USAGE CHART

Hyperspace  travel   .48 to .16  cubic  meter  /  coordinate  travelled
     (based on engine class).

Firing laser   .01 cubic meters.

Firing missile   .5 cubic meters.

Shields raised   .1 cubic meter / star hour

Launching or landing .25 / cubic meter per G of the planet.

APPENDIX C:  EXCERPT FROM THE RELIGIOUS WRITINGS OF ARTH

THE BOOK OF ENDURIUM

CHAPTER ONE:  THE YEARS OF DARKNESS (AND CHAOS).  VERSES 1-6.

1.   In  the  beginning  there  was darkness...  or was there light...  no,
there  was  darkness.  Anyway, then Man came on the scene and verily did he
create  a  great  spacefaring  empire  and unto him...  you know I'm almost
positive there was darkness in the beginning.

2.   Well,  so  anyhow, man spreadeth wide and extended himself amongst the
heavenly  bodies  of the universe, and it was good (really, in fact, it was
great!).   And thereby and thusly did he findeth the other races.  And unto
his  Empire  did  he  take  them,  and  yea did he accepteth them almost as
equals.

3.   And  for  a time there was rejoicing and forsooth all has hunky dorey.
The,  upon  Mankind  was there laid the greatest of catastrophes and he was
bummed.   The  lands  trembled and the skies burned and Yea destruction was
brought down upon the Empire of Man.

4.   And  in  the  fall  of this righetous an glorious empire did the other
races  seize upon the opportunity to express their disapproval of mankind's
ways  and  verily did they slaughter billions of his number.  And following
this were the Dark Years of Chaos.

5.   Woe  and Yea and Woe were these years not dark, and were they not also
chaotic?   Verily were they chaotic and dark.  In these years was there the
darkness  of  chaos  and  the chaos of darkness.  Both the darkness and the
chaos were like unto no darkness or chaos as had been seen before.

6.  And from this dark chaos, which as both chaotic and dark, were born the
colonial  worlds of Noah, which were like unto children of the empire.  And
among  these  worlds, which were like unto siblings, as Arth, and its moons
were  like unto children of Arth, which were like unto grandchildren of the
Empire, and first cousins of the other colonial worlds.

CHAPTER TWO:  THE PROPHECY.  VERSES 1-4

1.   And  Yea  shall  Arth be plunged into dark years of chaos.  I say unto
thee  Yea.   Yea!  Shall these years be dark and chaotic and unto the other
dark  years  of chaos.  Woe, shall they be even more dark and more chaotic.
Verily shall they be so dark and so chaotic it can not even be imagined how
dark and chaotic they shall be.

2.   Long  and  long  shall these years of darkness and chaos be.  And then
from  these  dark  years shall there arise a new Arth and a New Council and
lo, they shall be new.  And the, within the bowels of Arth shall there once
again  be  movement.   Yea,  and  proudly  shall  man  once  again walk the
corridors of the children of Noah.

3.   And within these corridors shall he once again findeth the Rock of the
Ancients,  which  was  first  found by Man within the ruins of the Ancients
wherein  they did dwell and live and generally hang out, long and long ago.
Praise  be  to the Ancients who were like unto...  Well, who were like unto
nothing  in  particular,  and who did walketh amongst the stars before even
mankind was a twinkle in the cosmic eye of reality.

4.   Hail  Endurium,  oh holiest of rock-like, high-yield energy materials!
Oh  beauteous  shining Rock of Truth!  Praise be to that holy legacy of the
Ancients for in it shall mankind once again findeth his destiny amongst the
stars!

So it is written.

APPENDIX D:  EXCERPTS FROM CAPTAIN'S LOG:  NOAH 2 EXPEDITION

1100 hrs.  3-22-3454
We  are  exactly  9  hours  away from Earth and the crew is completely
exhausted.   It has been four hours since we were attacked by the Gazurtoid
ships  and I am going to Yellow Alert so that some of the crew can get some
rest.   While  the  ship  has  sustained  major  damage,  all  systems  are
operational and there are, miraculously, no casualties.

I am afraid that in my optimism I have made a grave error in judgement
and  endangered  the  lives  of  all aboard.  In selecting our course I was
fully  aware  of  the  fact  that the primary jump link would leave us just
outward  of  the  Staff Constellation; lately there has been a good deal of
Gazurtoid  activity  in that area.  Since the link was only about 8 sectors
from  the  Sol  System,  however,  and since there existed a secondary link
which  would  deposit  us  in the immediate vicinity of Arth in a matter of
hours,  I foolishly decided to risk an encounter rather than spend weeks in
hyperspace.

The  moment  we  dropped  out  of  the Flux we were under attack.  Our
missiles  has  little or no effect on the Gazurtoid ships.  Apparently they
have devised some new form of shield against missile attacks.  Fortunately,
we  accidentally  hit  another  Flux just upspin and core-ward of the first
one.   Our  Navigator  has just located our position and we are at 189,190.
This puts us quite a long way from out destination, but we are alive.  With
luck and no more surprises we should reach Arth in approximately two days.

 Captain out.

APPENDIX E:  TIMELINE
With  the information we've discovered in the underground colony ruins
our  researchers  have been able to piece together a timeline which we feel
is  fairly accurate.  We are still not sure about a lot of the details, and
many  of  the  references  are  obscure.   We  are  hoping  that  from your
explorations  you may be able to provide us with enough data to fill in all
the remaining gaps.

2100 - Man discovers Endurium.

2150 - Man discovers Endurium's application to superphotonic technology and
   begins exploring.  Colonization beings.  Start of Empire.

2300 - Man meets Velox.

2650 - Major Endurium finds usher in Empire's Golden era.

2675 - Empire discovers Spemin.

2770 - Empire discovers Thyrnn and Elowan.

3000 - Start of first wave (?).

3120 - Velox pact of 3120.

3260 - First wave (?) ends.

3400 - Start of second wave (?).

3450 - Project Noah is initiated.

3454 - Launch of Noah 2 expedition.

3480 - Fall of Earth.

3505 - Bomb  hit  Arth,  creates  Southern  Hot Zone and forces underground
   colonists above ground.

3520 - Arth society collapses and the Dark Years begin.

4400 - Arth's  new  era  begins  with  the  new  council and the industrial
   revolution.

4500 - Rediscovery of space flight (sublight).

4594 - Discovery of Noah 2 colony and Endurium.

4615 - First group sent out in superphotonic ships.

4620 - Present day.
