
                      DOCS TO : CRUISE FOR A CORPSE

                     DONE BY : MR.THOMPSON / DEFJAM

---------------------------------------------------------------------

CHARACTER BACKGROUND INFORMATION:

     30th July 1926: LAUNCHING CEREMONY OF THE KARABOUDJAN III
    -----------------------------------------------------------
Yesterday morning, a host of local dignitaries waved Mr and Mrs
Karaboudjan offas they launched Karaboudjan III from dock "26".
The Karaboudjan III is a superb 19th century sailing ship which has
been renovated and modernised in the shipyards of the old port. Mr
Garcia, works supervisor, explained the improvements which have been
made to the boat: "It is an old sailing ship that we have completely
restored. We have also changed the structure of the ship as some
materials had deteriorated from bad weather. "The Karaboudjan III
belongs to business tycoon, Niklos Karaboudjan.
Mr Garcia continued his historic tale about the ship: "This boat
belonged to a pirate called one-eyed Jack. One-eyed Jack and his band
terrorised the seas of Europe. They attacked trading ships and such
like.
Jack, with his pirates plundered anything which could be later sold on
the black market: cargos of spices, silks, whisky...
All the stolen goods were stored on the little island of Ligorni,
situated along the coast Sicily, to be sold or exchanged later.
One-eyed Jack was a pirate feared and sought by the entire world's
maritime police. Jack had one big vice: alcohol.
So it was that one October evening in 1820, Niklos Karaboudjan's great
grandfather, Anastopoulos Karaboudjan, found himself involved in a bet
with Jack.
Anastopoulos was on a business trip to the isle of Ligorni. In fact he
had a meeting with Jack to sell him weapons. That evening, Jack had
already had a lot to drink and owed Anastopoulos a fairly large sum of
money for a previous delivery of weapons. He made Anastopoulos a bet:
"I am going to get out a case of my best hooch and we'll see if you
are capable of drinking as many glasses as me. If I win my bet, I
won't owe you a penny, If you win, I'll give you a superb sailing ship 
that I stole this week from an English spice merchant".
Jack was convinced that Anastopoulos would not be able to hold his
drink as well as him. He underestimated Anastopoulos, who had frequented
the murkiest bars of Europe and was used to very strong liquor.
Anastopoulos was not too pleased with his bet, as he was afraid of
losing, and had no need for such a sailing ship. He had come to his
island with his henchmen to recover the money that Jack owed him, but
also to sell him more weapons. Jack had been one of his best customers
for many years, and although he always paid very late, he had never
really caused any problems.
Anastopoulos felt obliged to accept the bet.
The challenge began in the island's only tavern which was filled to
bursting. Every gulp made by the two protagonists was punctuated by loud
cheers from the noisy crowd.
To everyone's surprice, it was Jack who was the first to collapse. Jack,
a fair player, kept his promise and several months later delivered the
sailing ship to Anastopoulos. The sailing ship was in a pitiful state.
Anastopoulos passed the boat onto his son Savidis, who in turn passed it
on to his son Niklos.
Later, the sailing ship was stored in an old warehouse in the port of
Marseilles. A year ago, Mr Karaboudjan came to find me to get me to
renovate this old carcass. He told me he wanted to use it for organising
cruises with his friends.
We can congratulate Mr Garcia and his men who have accomplished a superb
piece of work and who have made this boat into a veritable masterpiece.

     3rd March 1926: POLICE BLUNDER!!! Raid on the Cafe De Paris!
    --------------------------------------------------------------
Last night at about 10.00pm, Inspector Raoul Dusentier and his men
carried out a raid on one of Paris's most fashionable restaurants: the
Cafe de Paris.
The police were looking for a dangerous criminal who was supposed to be
in the Cafe de Paris that evening. Everyone who was dining in the
restaurant was taken away. Mr Dusentier explained that he had to take
everyone into custody to be sure that the man they were looking for did
not escape. Now, the man in question did not happen to be there. Mr
Dusentier made his humblest apologies to the persons detained, and he
hastily released them. He had evidently been misled by one of his
informers. Mr Karaboudjan, a businessman currently very much in the
public eye, was dining, amongst others, that night at the Cafe de Paris.
We asked him about the indelicate practice of the police. This is what
he had to say: "Don't be too hard on these police officers.
They were only trying to do their job and they made an unfortunate
mistake. It can happen to anybody. We shouldn't criticise them, as we
are only too glad to have them around when we need them.
It is just a shame that I was unable to finish the duck I was eating, it
was excellent."
A declaration which will certainly put Mr. Dusentier's mind at rest.

 26th June 1926: SOCA LAMBADA ABANDONS THE RACING GRAND PRIX AT ANTIBES
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Julio Esperanza y Soca Lambada, son of the famous industrialist Pedro
Soca Lambada retired from the grand prix of Antibes on the sixth lap.
Soca Lambada was in fourth position at the time and had had a very good
race. Unfortunately he was let down by his car's engine. This is the
second time this season that Soca Lambada's engine has caused him
problems. It is even more of a shame since Soca Lambada has undeniable
qualities as a driver. He should have another look at the mechanics for
future races! Julio doesn't have anything to worry about with regards to
the future of his team however, as it is generously financed by his
father's business.

     26th June 1926: SALE OF PARIS'S HOTEL ROYAL
    ---------------------------------------------
One of Paris's most beautiful private hotels, the Royal, was sold
yesterday afternoon in the officeof the notary Maitre Logan. The
purchaser wished to remain anonymous. The former owner, Mr Fabre seemed,
on the other hand, greatly saddened by the sale: "I had no choice. My
business was in considerable debt and my only solution was to sell .
This private hotel has been in our family for six generations."
We asked Mr Fabre to reveal the name of the purchaser. But it seems that
the purchaser has given Mr Fabre instructions to keep this a secret. Mr
Fabre did however tell us, "The only thing I can say is that the
purchaser has paid a ridiculously low sum in relation to the value of
the hotel. However, I had no choice as I was being cornered by my
creditors.

5th December 1926: AUCTION SALES IN FRONT OF NOTRE DAME CATHEDRAL IN PARIS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Father Fabiani is today organising an auction sale to finance the
renovation work of the cathedral's windows. Amongst the objects to be
sold are religious frescoes and books dating from the middle ages.
Father Fabiani calls on your generosity and hopes that many of you will
come...

12th January 1927: FIRST PERFORMANCE OF THE TENOR PAZAGLI AT THE OPERA
                   DE PARIS
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Last night the Paris smart set were jostling one another at the opera to
applaud the first performance of Marce Pazagli, the tenor.
Pazagli is one of Italy's most celebrated tenors. His last performance
at La Scala, Milan, once again had the audience in raptures.
His forst performance in France was a triumph and received a standing
ovation. In the boxes, the presence of numerous celebrites was noted,
amongst them the enticing Mrs Karaboudjan. To everyone's surprise, she
was not accompanied by her charismatic husband, but by two charming
bodyguards.

**************************************************************************

REFERENCE MANUAL FOR THE CINEMATIQUE SYSTEM
-------------------------------------------
                  CONTROLLING THE HERO
                 ----------------------
A. MOVING
   To move Raoul within a room, point the mouse cursor at the required
   destination and press the LEFT mouse button. Raoul will then move to
   that location, avoiding any obstacle in his way.
   To go to a different room, place the cursor over the door or the exit
   displayed on the screen and press the LEFT mouse button.

B. MANIPULATING YOUR ENVIRONMENT
   Each room contains a large number of objects, any of which could be
   clues, vital to the progress of your investigation.
   To find out about the actions you can use on an object, place the
   mouse cursor over it and press the LEFT mouse button.
   A list of verbs relating to the selected object will be displayed.
   Place the mouse cursor over the relevant action verb (the highlighted
   verb will then change colour) and press the LEFT button.
   Raoul will then carry out the order you have given him.
   If you choose not to use any of the proposed actions, move the cursor
   within the menu (all the verbs will then be the same colour meaning
   that none has been selected), then press the LEFT button to exit the
   list.
   It is important to know that only actions which can be executed on the
   objects immediately are displayed on the list.
   EXAMPLE: Raoul is in a room containing a chest of drawers. Let's
   suppose you wish to examine the contents of one of the drawers and that
   the drawer is closed. Move the mouse cursor over the drawer and press
   the LEFT mouse button. A single verb will appear on the list: OPEN...
   Nothing yet will allow you to search the inside of the drawer.
   Select the verb OPEN ordering Raoul to open the drawer.
   Then press again on the drawer and the following verbs will be
   displayed: SEARCH , CLOSE
   Now, all you have to do is select the verb SEARCH on the list and reap
   the fruit of your efforts.

C. USING FOUND OBJECTS
   Some actions are likely to be possible only when the object is in your
   possession... For example, you will need to take a letter before you
   can read it, a jacket before you can wear it..etc...
   To display the inventory of objects carried by Raoul, simply press the
   RIGHT mouse button.
   If you want to affect one of the objects displayed in the inventory,
   move the mouse cursor over the name of the object (it will then change
   colour) and press the LEFT mouse button.
   The list of actions associated with that object will be displayed
   instead of the inventory. Point the mouse cursor to a verb (which will
   then change colour) and press the LEFT mouse button.
   Remember, only actions possible immediately will be displayed on the
   list.
   EXAMPLE: Raoul has just picked up a small ball of paper and you want to
   READ what it says...
   Press the RIGHT mouse button and display the list of objects carried by
   Raoul. Then, point the mouse cursor to "piece of paper" and press the
   LEFT mouse button to call the following list: EXAMINE, THROW, SHOW,
   SMOOTH OUT.
   Select the verb SMOOTH OUT on the list. Raoul will then smooth out the
   piece of paper. Now recall the inventory and select the "piece of
   paper"... The list of verbs associated with it is now as follows:
   EXAMINE, THROW, SHOW, READ.
   All you need to do is move the mouse cursor over the verb READ and
   press the LEFT mouse button.

D. ESTABLISHING LINKS BETWEEN OBJECTS
   It is very likely that the objects you will find at various locations
   have not been placed there by chance and the odds are that at some
   stage in your quest, you will have to make the most of your
   opportunities. Use your powers of deduction, flair and intuition to
   try and guess the link between particular objects.
   Although these relationships are, on the whole, easy to establish (a
   key goes into a lock to unlock a door, a pickaxe digs an opening into
   a rock), sometimes it will take more time. Don't lose heart immediately
   because there is ALWAYS a solution.
   When you think you have guessed the link between two objects, try it
   out to check your deduction.
   Here are some examples which illustrate the way to establish a
   relationship between one object and another...
   A: You have a key... In front of you, a locked door just asking to be
      opened.
        -Press the RIGHT button to call the inventory.
        -Choose the "key" from the inventory.
        -In the new list of verbs, select the verb "put in"...A control
         phrase will be displayed "key:put in..." to remind you that you
         must now select the object in which you wish to put the key...
        -Move the cursor over the lock and press the LEFT mouse button...
         Raoul will execute the action.
   B: You still have the key and you have just found a small box. The key
      and the box are both in the inventory and you will try to open the
      box with the key...
        -Press the RIGHT button to call the inventory.
        -Select the "key" from the inventory.
        -Select "Open.." on the list of verbs relating to the key.
        -Press the RIGHT button again to recall the inventory.
        -Now, move the mouse cursor over the word "box" and validate with
         the LEFT button to execute the opening of the box with the key...
   C: A pile of records on a table and, nearby, a record player.
      You want to listen to a record...
        -Move the cursor over the pile of records and press the LEFT
         mouse button
        -The list of verbs associated with the pile of records is now
         displayed. Choose "Put on...". The following control phrase is
         displayed  "record: put on..." reminding you that you need to
         decide where Raoul must put the record
        -Move the cursor over the record player and press the LEFT button
         to validate the action of "putting the record on the record
         player" and listen away.

E. DIALOGUE
   An investigation conducted according to the rules must begin by a close
   interrogation of the suspects.
   When a character is in the room, move the mouse cursor over him/her and
   press the LEFT button to display the list of actions. Select the
   verb "speak" to start the conversation...
   A list of topics of conversation classified by heading will be
   displayed. Each heading includes all the topics of conversation
   relating to a character (except the heading "objects found" which
   allows you to question the suspects on the objects you discovered
   during your investigation).

EXAMPLE
You want to question Father Fabiani about Julio's taste for computer games.
When you go into dialogue mode, the following menu will be displayed:
           TOM
           FABIANI
           SUZANNE
           JULIO
           HECTOR
           OBJECTS FOUND
           THANX FOR YOUR HELP
Place the mouse cursor on "Julio" and press the LEFT button. A sub-menu 
with all the topics of conversation having a link with Julio will be 
displayed: JULIO
           HIS PASSION FOR GAMES
           HIS LOVE OF PLANTS
           HIS RELATIONSHIP WITH SUZANNE
           OTHER TOPICS...
Move the cursor over "his passion for games" and press the LEFT button
to receive Father Fabiani's answer.
According to the answer, one or more topics will be added to the list. 
Some minor topics will merely pad out the conversation and allow you to
obtain more detail on a particular theme.
These temporary topics are easily recognizable as they are displayed
dark in the menu.

EXAMPLE
Let's suppose that the priest's answer to the previous question is :
"Julio has a passion for adventure games, especially DELPHINE's...
"There would be two new temporary themes in the menu "Adventure Games"
and "Delphine"... These themes may bring up others.
In some instances, the new topic is vital to the progress of your
investigation. It will then be displayed permanently on the list
(in white) and you will be able to question someone else on the same
topic.
To exit the conversation, choose the heading  "thank you for your help"
on the list.
When you are in a heading sub-menu, select "other topics" to go back
to the main headings menu.

THE USER MENU
This menu offers functions which are not part of the actual game but
which will allow you, for example, to save or reload a game...
You access this menu by pressing both mouse buttons simultancously.
RESTART:    to restart a game from the beginning.
SAVE DRIVE: to tell the program on which disk you wish to save.
SAVE GAME:  to save the current game onto a disk. At the prompt, insert
            the save disk.
            A directory of games already on the disk will be displayed.
            Choose a slot and validate.
            If there is not slot available in the directory, use a new
            save disk or save over an existing game.
LOAD GAME:  to continue a previously saved game. At the prompt, insert
            the save disk.
            The list of saved games on the save disk will be displayed.
            Move the mouse over the name of the game to be loaded and
            validate.
NOTE: You can save a game as long as your hero is alive. We recommend
      that you use this option regulary and everytime the situation is
      dangerous. During some animation sequences, where you not have to
      guide your character, you will not be able to save the game. Don't
      worry, nothing very dangerous can happen to you during these
      sequences or it's too late to take action!

HINTS AND TIPS FOR BEGINNERS
If this is the first time you have played an adventure game, here are
some tips :

  -Examine all the objects in your location
  -Read carefully all the comments displayed as they may hold important
   clues for the rest of your adventure.
  -Pick up as many objects as possible.
  -Consider the various possible uses of the objects you have.
  -Activate everything you can.
  -Talk to as many people as possible, they may put you onto a lead.
  -Save as soon as you feel some danger.
  -However, if you are stuck at somestage of the game, try and check
   whether you have forgotten an object or whether you have failed to
   do something earlier.
  -Every problem has a solution - ALWAYS.
