1 - HALLEY ClTY

2088

HALLEY CITY (Formerly Los Angeles)

JIM POWER is the chief of the Special Warfare Unit for the Security 
of President HALLEY (S.W.U.S.P.H). He is an unrivalled 
sharp shooter and is gifted with an incredibb aptitude for
detective work He is the best man the S.W.U.S.P.H. have got.

On the night of January the 21st, President Halley himself rushed
into Jim's apartment on 827th avenue. Jim had never seen such panic on 
a face usually so calm. He implored Jim to help him, the President 
knew that Jim Power was the only man capable of surviving this terrible
mission.

The President's daughter, the beautiful SAMANTHA, had just been 
kidnapped by VULKHOR, the foreboding devil of the MUTANT PLANET... 
a planet which is situated in the galaxy of EXORTOS, 538 million 
light-years from HALLEY Cily. It is a place where no Terrestrian has
ever dared venture until now; it is a terrifying world infested with 
evil beings and unknown horrors.

The kidnapping had been filmed by the closed-circuit cameras on Halleys 
property in Hawaii: Samantha was lying by the swimming-pool, her 5 
body-guards were nearby in the shooting range where they were carrying 
out their daily training. Vulkhor had carefully chosen his moment: 
he swooped down upon his unsuspecting victim and flew away grasping 
her tightly between his claws like a bird of prey.

Vulkhor knew Halleys weakness. His daughter was the perfect hostage to 
hold in exchange for what he wanted to know... the location of Halleys 
new absolute weapon. Halley was aware that if such a weapon fell into
the wrong hands it would be disastrous for the entire universe. A
threat of total destructbn would be continually looming over the heads 
of all living beings. Knowing this, he tried to take precautions by 
hiding the weapon in a location only he knew and hiring body-guards 
for his famiiy in case of potential black-mail. However, this was obviousiy
not enough.

The stake is the lives of billions of Terrestrians versus the life 
of Samantha, his daughter. Vulkhor sent a muiti sensorial telepoathic
message to President Halley
"Halby, I give you 24 hours and not a second more for you to hand
over your secret. If you dont meet my demands, I will take care of 
your dearest Samantha ... Such a beauty ... it would be surh
a pily to make a mutant out of her.."

To give in to blackmail was not the answer. Halby knew he had to send 
someone on a mission to rescue his daughter, to save her life and by
doing so, the universe would be free of the threat of terminal slavery. 
The President immediately knew that Jim Power was going to be the only
man who stood a chance against Vulkhor, so he contacted him instantiy.

"Jim, in the past you have proven your strength, your courage, 
your cunning and you're the best fighter we've got. You are the only 
one who can help. Please Jim, without you we have no hope...'

"But, Mr. President, there's no way I could get to Exortos in 24 hours, 
it's 538 million light-years away"

"That's all taken care of Jim, Professor IVAN LABHYBINE OSSUZHOV has 
developed a new module for astromagnetic teleportation. The Professor
will also supply you with mega-weapons and will keep in touch with 
you to send you help when needed. Lets not waste any more time."

Jim is no novice to dangerous missions, but he's got no idea of what 
he'll find on the MUTANT PLANET, a world of unknown horrors where 
evil reigns above all else.


2 - MUTANT PLANET

Discovering Mutant Planet

During his journey in search of Samantha, Jim Power will have to face a 
myriad of horrific creatures and escape from terrifying traps... Todoso,
he will have to travel part of the distance on foot (3 levels) and
the rest of it with a Jet-Pack a super-powelful motorized flying device
(2 levels).

5 levels with staggering animation and parallactic scrolling of 3 to 
12 parallaxes.

5 astounding levels with 50 screens in each, in both hostile and 
fascinating landscapes: an impenetrable forest, a strange city, 
gloomy caves, a huge crater and a boundless ocean.


WEAPONS
~~~~~~~
To survive all your challenging encounters, you can use 8 weapons and 2 
msg a waapons, including a gun with multiple shooting configurations 
and a powerful "smart bomber".


ENEMIES
~~~~~~~
During your journey, you will come across mutants, monsters, zombies, 
wild beasts, vultures, skulls, carnivorous plants, spiders and other
strange creatures. Annihilate as many as you can.

Beware though, some of them are invincible, so try to Noid them and not 
waste your ammunition.

TRAPS
~~~~~
Beware of acid drops, stakes, flames, stalactites and killing barrels 
that could get in your way.
These objects can fall down from nowhere and you'll have to test your
reflexes in order to avoid them.

BONUSES
~~~~~~~
MODULES float in the air. they are sounding machines sent by the 
        Earth to help you in your mission. Don't mistake them for
        your enemies!

The SHIELDS help you to guard against cenain projectiles.

The CLOCKS give extra time to allow you to complete your mission.

The FRUIT give life points.

The 1 UP bonus gives an extra life.

The DIAMONDS give purchasing power in order to buy weapons.

The SB bonuses give extra smart bombs.

The KEYS open doors and secret passages. it is important to collet 
them as you go otherwise you might have a problem when you get to 
a door!


3 - LOADING

ATARI ST:

Insert disk A into the drive and turn on the computer. Press fire button 
to continue.

AMIGA 500:

Insert disk A into the drive and turn on the computer. Press fire button 
to continue.


4 - COMMANDS

JOYSTICK

Connect your joystick before starting the game.


                           jumping
                              ^
                              |
                              |
                              |
towards the                   |
left        <---------------------------------> towards the right
                              |
                              |
                              |
                              |
                         bending down

Shoot: Fire button (for the smart bomb, keep the fire button pressed).

KEYBOARD
~~~~~~~~
Shooting Space bar (for the smart bombs, keep the space bar pressed).


FUNCTIONS
~~~~~~~~~
P   PAUSE
ESC EXIT GAME


---
Typed by RAZOR BLADE for ALLIANCE