
                            [41m[32mBUBBLE & SQUEAK[0m

[1mBUBBLE & SQUEAK.[22m Bubble was just about to fall asleep when he heard a
thump, and a strange squeaking noise coming from the wardrobe. Summoning all his
courage, he got out of bed and opened the wardrobe door to reveal a strange blue
creature sitting amongst his dirty socks.
"Who are you?", he asked, trying to sound braver than he felt.
"I'm Squeak", replied the blue creature nervously, "Where am I?"
"You're in my wardrobe", said Bubble, "And I want to know how you got there!"
"Well", said the creature, "The last thing I remember is jumping into a passing
black hole hoping to find someone who could help us."
"Us?", interrupted Bubble, "you mean there are more of you in there?".
"No, they, are all working in the porridge mines on Grool. I'm the only onw who
escaped... and you're the only one who can help." A large tear rolled slowly
down his cheek.
"Porridge... Grool... perhaps if you started from the beginning I'd know what
was going on", said Bubble. "But of course, I'll help you if I can".
So Squeak explained how the evil Kat of Nine Tails and his henchmen had captured
the inhabitants of Grool imprisoning them in 'Bozo Domes' and forcing them to
work in the porridge mines. Somehow Squeak had evaded capture, and had used his
last few coins to buy some bubble gum. There must have been something special
about the gum, because as he chewed it he suddenly felt full of energy, and
jumped into a passing black hole.
"OK", said Bubble, "I'll help you, but how do we get to Grool?".
"I'm not sure... I think we'll have to jump into a black hole".
"Will any black hole do?", asked Bubble, "How about that one in my sock?"
"It looks pretty black to me", said Squeak, "Let's try it."
And so now you know how Bubble & Squeak came to find themselves on the
planet Grool. But that's only the beginning... how you've got to outwit
the evil Kat of Nine Tails, free the creatures trapped in the Bozo Domes,
and live happily ever after. What are you waiting for?

[1mLOADING INSTRUCTIONS.[22m If you have a CD32, place the CD in the drive and
press the reset button. Otherwise place Disk 1 in the internal drive and reset
your computer. Change disks only when instructed to do so (if you have a second
floppy drive you will not need to change disks at all).

The floppy disk version can be installed to hard disk. First make a directory
called (say) SQUEAK, then copy all of the files on both disks to this directory.
Add the following lines at the bottom of your STARTUP-SEQUENCE file:

		Assign BUBBLE1: DH0:SQUEAK
		Assign BUBBLE2: DH0:SQUEAK

To play the game, reset the computer, and when it has finished rebooting insert
Disk1. Go to the SQUEAK directory and type CODE to run the game.

[1mCONTROLS.[22m Whether you play on a CD32 or an Amiga you can use a CD32
controller, a joystick with two indipendent fire buttons (or a Megadrive
controller), or an ordinary one-button joystick.

You control Bubble - you can walk, jump, throw stars, and pick up coins, gems,
and other useful items. Squeak will follow you around - as best he can - unless
you tell him to stop and wait. Unfortunately Squeak can't walk as fast as you,
or jump so far or so high - unless you take him to one of the bubble gum
machines and feed him a magic gumball. But more of that later. Another useful
thing about Squeak is he doesn't mind being kicked around - literally. And you
can jump on his head, too. He'll even throw you up in the air if you want him
to!

The diagrams on the opposite page show how to use the different controllers.
Note that some of the functions require two keys (or one key and a joystick
direction) to be pressed together.

If you choose to quit a level you'll lose a life.

[1mCD32 CONTROLLER.[22m

 Left Ear:                       Right Ear:
 Look-Up                         Look-Down    Action Button [33m(X)  (Y)[0m Fire/Kick
              Middle-pad button:
                    Pause                         Fire/Kick [33m(Z)  (Q)[0m Jump/Fly

                                                    [33m(Z)[0m+[33m(Q)[0m simultaneously:
                                                      Throw Bubble in Air
When Game is Paused:
Look-Up + Look-Down + Fire/Kick: Restart Level
Look-Up + Left + Action Button : Quit Game

Action Button - Call/Stop Squeak
                Pick-Up Object
                Climb Off Squeak
                Insert Coins


[1mONE FIRE BUTTON JOYSTICK (A).[22m

         Jump/Fly            Throw Bubble in Air
            |                         |
     Left --o-- Right                 o    Hold Fire Button [33m(A)[0m Then Move
                                      |             Joystick
    [33m(A)[0m Fire Button:            Action Button
       Fire/Kick                 (see above)

P=pause, ESC=quit level
PAUSE then ESC=quit game.

[1mTWO BUTTON JOYSTICK (B) (C).[22m

   Throw Bubble in Air
 Fire/Kick      Jump/Fly
    [33m(B)           (C)[0m                 o    Hold Fire Button [33m(B)[0m
                                      |
     Left --o-- Right           Action Button
                                 (see above)
P=pause, ESC=quit.

[1mOVERVIEW.[22m There are thirty main levels in the game. Bubble and Squeak
need to get to the end of each level, marked by flashing post. Of course, the
creatures that the Kat of Nine Tails has left on guard aren't exactly going to
help you - so watch out!

On Each level there is a submarine icon to collect. Pick this up, and at the the
end of the level Bubble and Squeak will get in a submarine to battle against the
Kat of Nine Tails in a shoot'em-up. There are five different shoot'em-ups, and
you must complete one before you go onto the next level.

In addition, if you free 3 of Squeak's little monster friends from the Bozo
Domes you get to play a bonus game - in all there are then different bonus
games. There is a Bozo Dome on most, but not all of the main levels.

As if it wasn't already tricky enough, you'll find that most of the main levels
gradually flood with water. Whilst Bubble and Squeak can survive under water for
a short time, you shouldn't push your luck!

[1mWATCH YOUR HEALTH![22m When the game begins you have 3 lives. You lose a
life when your health runs out. Watch the 'heart' indicator in the status
display - when this shows zero the next hit you take will be curtains!

[1mWHAT TO COLLECT.[22m On each level you'll find various magic items scattered
around. Pick these up whenever you have the chance - and provided you have the
time. Look out for

GEMS - liberally scattered throughout the levels, they are worth points - but
most important, you can use them to free Squeak's little monster friends from
the Bozo Domes. It takes 50 gems to shatter a Bozo Dome. Any gems you are still
carrying at the end of a level are worth 50 points each.

COINS - these are dropped by aliens when you zap them. Pick them up and use them
to buy gum for Squeak. Three coins are needed for each gumball, and any coins
you have left at the end of the level are worth 50 points.

FOOD - collect food to replenish your health. You can have a maximum of 8 health
points at any one time.

SUBMARINE TOKEN - collect this for a chance to battle against the Kat of Nine
Tails in his underwater lair.

[1mWATCH OUT FOR...[22m Other things to look out for are:

GUMBALL MACHINES - there's at least one on almost every level. Different
machines sell different-flavoured gum.

FLOWER POTS - you can pick them up, pile them up, stand on them, even throw them
around a little.

SPRINGS - use them to jump to heights you've never dreamt of! You can even pick
them up and pile them on top of each other!

ELEVATORS - these are usually controlled by a button that you must hit.

LAVA FLOW - hit the button alongside these funnels to send hot lava down into
the water below, evaporating it and giving you more time.

GOAL POST - this flashing post indicates the end of the level. Remember you've
got to get Squeak there too!

[1mBUBBLE(GUM) AND SQUEAK.[22m Feed Squeak some gum, purchased from one of the
gumball machines that you'll find on most levels, and you'll find that not only
can you jump on his back, he'll also have powers you didn't suspect. Take Squeak
over to the machine, then insert three coins and give the machine a good kick.
Jump on his back, and now, depending on the flavour of the gum, Squeak will be
able to:

-move as fast and jump as high as you can, and blow bubbles of gum to zap
 aliens, or
-fly, or
-run super fast

In addition, while you're on his back he can squash aliens just by jumping on
them. However, these magic powers only last while you're on Squeak's back.

[1mBONUS GAMES.[22m Each Bozo Dome contains a captive who can only be freed if
you deposit 50 gems in the dome (just stand in front and the gems will
automatically fly in). Free three of Squeak's little blue friends from the domes
and you'll be allowed to play a special bonus game when you get to the end of
the level.

There are ten different bonus games, divided into three types:

SPRING CHAMBER - bounce around collecting gems

MAZE RACE - which way to go to get the most gems?

LIFT OFF - trigger the lifts and moving platforms in the right order to collect
the gems

If you collect at least 50 gems, then get to the Goal Post before the timer runs
out you'll be awarded an EXTRA LIFE. Any surplus gems score 50 points.

[1mTHE SHOOT'EM-UPS.[22m If you collect the submarine token that can be found
on each level, then at the end of that level you'll get a chance to battle
against the Kat of Nine Tails and his fishy friends in an underwater battle.

There are five lagoons, each more difficult than the one before. Though you
start with only one submarine you can collect extra subs along the way. Watch
out for the arrow tokens - collect one of these and if you have to restart the
level you won't have to go back to the beginning.

If you get to the end of the level you'll have to battle it out with the Kat of
Nine Tails himself - can you send him crashing to the ocean floor?

[3mGame, characters and manual copyright Audiogenic Software Limited, 1994
BUBBLE & SQUEAK is a trademark of Sunsoft
Original design by Pat Fox and Scott Williams
Programmed by Alex Slater and Ray Price
Graphics by Pat Fox with the help from Richard Smith
Sound and music by Allister Brimble

Doc typed in by Hexaae (15.10.06)[23m

                                     <END>
