
 INDIANA JONES AND THE LAST CRUSADE: THE GRAPHIC ADVENTURE


 In this graphic adventure, you become the swash-buckling archaeologist,
Indiana Jones, in his search for the Holy Grail. You must travel from your
school in New York to Venice and search misty Roman catacombs; then, to
Brunwald Castle on thethe Austrian-German border, where your long-lost father,
who was recently kidnapped, awaits your rescue! If you play your cards
correctly, you will soon find yourself in Berlin. From Berlin, you must catch a
Zeppelin flight to Iskanderun, where the Holy Grail is located....

 Please note: This walkthru contains all the information to solve this game.
However, there are hundereds of multiple solutions that you might come across
as you play. If you find yourself in a different situation, it does not
necessarily mean you did something wrong. Another problem with writing a
walkthru for this game is the randomness factor. Many rooms, objects, and
locations change from game to game. I have done my best to "generalize" the
random elements.

 ABOUT THE COMMANDS

 There are certain things you should know before reading this walkthru. When I
mention WALKING to someplace, it means you should use the WALK TO command.
Also, remember that the words GET, PICKUP, TAKE, and GRAB all refer to clicking
on the PICK UP command. Although most things you'll read herein contain the
EXACT commands and moves, some will use synonyms and phrases.

 BEFORE YOU START

 It may be a good idea to explore the game on your own before using this
walkthru. If you're ever puzzled by anything mentioned in this article, it
would help if you explored the area on your own, then returned to the walkthru.
This way, you'll have a general idea of the settings and puzzles.

 BARNETT COLLEGE, 1938

 You have just retuned to your school after recovering the Cross of Coronado.
Marcus Brody, your good friend, meets you in the hallway. He gives you a nice
warm welcome, then asks you for some "translations" he gave you. You open up
your note book and give them to him. Marcus says thanks, then continues to take
inventory on some valuble artifacts.

 The first thing you must do is go to the school's locker room (where you can
change out of your damp clothes). When you exit, you'll automatically be
wearing a nice suit. After taking a quick look at the gym, return to the locker
room.

 This time, when you exit the room, you will be wearing a nifty boxing suit.
You will automatically enter the school boxing ring and converse with the
muscular coach. You will be given three options of what to say to the coach. If
you want a rather easy fight, choose TAKE IT EASY ON ME from the menu of
replies. If you want a moderate fight, select the next reply. And if you want
to be ready for the real world of adventure, select the phrase GIVE ME ALL YOU
GOT. After you can easily defeat the coach, tell the him you can't fight
anymore, and maybe next time.

 You will walk back into the locker room and put your suit back on. Now, walk
into your outer office (it is located up and tot he left of the gym). You will
notice the room is filled with angry students. Tell them you are sure you can
work something out. Then, allow them to relax. Next, you should tell your kind
secretary, Irene, to take all the kids names down on a list, and that you will
see everyone in order.

 Because of your charming remarks, the students will allow you to pass. You
should now be in your quiet, private office. Walk over to your cluttered desk
and keep picking up all the objects on it until you see a package. Pick up the
package and open it. As you know, you can't leave the way you came in, so you
should walk over to the window on the right and open it. Now, climb outside.

 When you get outside, two men will greet you. Don't worry, you should go with
them. They will take you to New York City, where Donovan, a wealty art
collector, will explain the Grail story to you. (If you would like to skip this
entire scene, you can push ESC or the right mouse button.) After the speech,
you will be returned to the front of your school.

 Upon arriving at Barnett, you should go to your father's house (click TRAVEL,
then select HENRY'S HOUSE). When you get there, you will notice the entire room
has been ransacked! Something awful has happend to your father and you want to
know what! Run into the small bedroom of the house and take the picture of a
cup off the north wall. Now, go to the bookcase nearest the bedroom and pull it
down. (Hey, the house is already a mess.) You should see a small piece of tape
on the back of the case. Pick it up. At this time, you return to your loving
students back at the college.

 Climb back into your room window and walk to the shelves on the left of it.
Open the jar of solvent (use WHAT IS to locate it on the shelf). Now, place the
sticky tape you found in your dad's home into the liquid. Again, you should
avoid the annoying children and climb out the window! Now you can travel to
your father's home again.

 When you arrive, you should walk to the table with the plant on top (to the
left of the door). Pick up the plant and put it on the floor. Next, pick up the
tablecloth and examine the chest below it. Use the small key that was in the
tape to open the chest. Look inside it and get the old book.

 Now you are ready to TRAVEL to Venice and search for the second marker Donovan
mentioned!


 AH, VENICE!

 Welcome to Venice! The first thing you should do in Venice is go to the
library. When you are there, you should search for three books: "Mein Kampf,"
"How to Fly a Biplane," and "Secrets of the Roman Catacombs." (Use the WHAT IS
command to scan all the books.) Now that you have obtained the three objects,
look in the Grail Diary.

 The Grail Diary will show a picture of a stained-glass window. Walk to the
same window in the library. (Make sure to get the red cordon and metal post
before going to the next step.)

 Now, read the Grail Diary one more time. Note the statement that is shown. (It
will say something like "The First on the Left.") The diary is referring to the
inscriptions on the pillars behind you. If the dairy mentions LEFT, go to the
left pillar; if it mentions RIGHT, walk to the inscription on the right pillar.
Now look at the inscription. There will be three Roman numerals on the
inscription. If your Grail Diary said FIRST, note the first Roman numeral. If
the dairy said SECOND, remember the second Roman numeral. And, if the Grail
Diary said THIRD, then remember the third number. Now, walk over to the slab on
the floor that has the same Roman numeral as the one you just figured out.

 ROMAN CATACOMBS

 Use the metal post with the slab. You should be in a room with three exits.
(If not, climb back up and redo the last step.) Take this time to look at the
Roman Catacomb book. You will notice there are maps above and below the
wording. (You will know where you are on the map after walking around for a few
minutes.)

 Exit through one of the doors and walk until you come across a room with two
skeletons on the east wall. Look at the skeleton on the right. Now, get the
hook on his arm. Keep walking around to the east until you enter a sewer room
with a manhole cover. (You should have passed a room with a torch and a room
with a slab on the ground.) Climb through the manhole cover.

 Walk over to the two people called "lovers" (they are on your left) and look
at the wine bottle on the table. Take the wine. You should go back in the
manhole now. (Note: You may want to fill the wine bottle it the fountain. If
you do, you can skip the next sentence.) When you are back in the catacombs,
walk to the board that is filled with water and fill the bottle.

 Next, go to the screen with the torch on the wall. Use the wine bottle with
the torch and you will loosen the hard, dry mud. Pull the torch and hang on!

 When you land, the wine bottle will break. Walk to the east. You should come
across a room with a cork and dripping water. Go one more screen to the east
and read the inscriptions on the wall. (Write them down; they will help later
in the game.) Now, walk out and use the hook in the cork. Next, use your trusty
whip with the hook.

 At this time, climb up the ladder and return to the screen where you filled
your bottle. Walk to the door on the right.

 You will find a strange machine in one of the rooms. Use the red cordon to
"fix" the machine. Then turn on the machine by using the wheel on the right.

 Again, explore the area until you run into a room with three gold statues near
a door. Look at your dad's Grail Diary and read what it tells you. Push the
statues until they are in the correct order (and the door will automatically
open for you). Walk in the door.

 Soon, you will see a narrow stone bridge. (This bridge will be up if you did
not turn on the machine.) Cross the bridge and enter the tunnel on the other
side of it.

 After walking around the catacombs some more, you should find a room with a
bunch of skulls on a "table." When you do, look at the Grail Diary. In order to
open the door, you must push the skulls in the correct order. (The door will
open a small amount if you perform this in the wrong sequence.) Each skull is a
different note from your father's diary. (Remember that you are Indy, and his
left is your RIGHT.)

 Walk in the door and down the flight of stone steps. You will eventually find
the room with the knight's casket. Open the casket and look at it. Now, walk to
the grating on the right of the screen and pull the rusty lock that is hanging
on it. Climb out out the manhole cover, again.

 Now, it is off to Brunwald Castle where you must find your long-lost father!


 BRUNWALD CASTLE (THE GERMAN BORDER)

 Enter the Castle and tell the butler that your are Lord Robert McFalfa, and
you are here to inspect the tapestries. Then, ask him: THIS CASTLE DO HAE
TAPESTRIES, DO YE NOT? Then, you knock him out. (There are other possible
solutions at this point.)

 Walk off the screen to the right. Now, go down and into the storage room. Get
the servant uniform. When you exit, there will be a guard outside. Tell him you
are here to talk with the prisoner. Then, tell him you are Dietrich's
successor. Finally, tell him he is leaking information.

 Now go to the north. Tell the Nazi near the steps that you are selling jackets
and you obtained authorization. Then, sell him the jacket for 15 Marks. Walk up
the steps and find a room with a chest in it. Open the chest and get the 50
Marks. Wear the servant uniform and talk to the first Nazi guard on the second
floor. Give the guard your painting.

 Walk to the east and go in another room with a small chest. Look inside the
chest and get the uniform. Look at the uniform. Continue down the hall.

 You will run into another Nazi guard. This time you must avoid him or fight.
(If you do fight, don't worry; there is a first aid kit in a room to the
south.) After fighting, return to the castle entrance. (Remember to put your
IndyWear on before going to the first floor.)

 Walk to the hall and locate a room with a drunk Nazi. Allow him to give you
the empty stein. Now, go to the kitchen (a room near where you are currently
located). Fill the stein with the spigot (or keg). Walk to the hot coals on the
roast boar. Pour the ale on the hot coals. When the hot steam clears, take the
roast boar with you. Now, refill the stein and return to the storage room.

 In the storage room you should use the key you found in the uniform with the
clothes lock. Get the grey uniform. Now, walk to the third floor.

 Wear the grey uniform and talk to the Nazi guard on the third floor. Keep
insulting him until he lets you pass. Walk into the room of the head Nazi,
Vogel (one of the first doors on the third floor). Give the roast boar to the
dog. Next open the drawer and get the pass. Before you go, take the trophy.

 Before doing anything else, go back to the kitchen and fill the trophy with
what's in the stein and go to the second floor. On the second floor, find the
alarm room and enter it. Give the Nazi guard "Mein Kampf." Now walk to the
security system and use the stein with the grating. Leave the room and go to
the art room. (It is near the place where you gave the guard your painting.)

 Walk to the giant paint-by-number Mona Lisa and push it. Open the safe. Take a
good look at the picture in the safe. (It may help you choose the correct
Grail.)

 Now, return to the third floor. Walk up to Biff the Nazi and offer him the
trophy (which is now full of ale). Give him one good punch and pat yourself on
the back.

 Search all of the rooms on the third floor until you locate one with a blue
couch and candelabra. (It should be a room on the right side of the floor.)
Walk to the candelabra and get the silver key hanging on it.

 Now, find a room with an alarm system on it (there are wires on top). Unlock
the door with your silver key and enter the room. (If the room has a cabinet in
it, open it and get the 75 Marks. If not, look in the room to the right or
left.) Leave the room and Vogel will capture you. Give him the _real_ Grail
Diary.

 When you are tied up, you can move by PUSHing or PULLing the chairs you are
tied on. Keep pushing the chairs until you are under the blade of the suit of
armor. When you think you are lined up properly, push the suit and hope the axe
cuts the ropes...not you.

 Get up and push the left statue on the fireplace. Now, walk out the fireplace.
You should be outside. Walk over to the motorcycle (with the sidecar) and get
in.

 BERLIN

 Almost all of Berlin is automatic. However, you must give Hitler your unsigned
pass when you "bump into" him.

 AIRPORT

 When you enter the airport, you will soon realize you don't have the the funds
to ride a Zeppelin. To overcome this, you should have Henry walk over to the
man in the airport and ask him about his children while Indy steals the tickets
in his pocket. Leave the airport and board the Zep. (Note: If you want to skip
this part, you can board the biplane at this point. To fly the biplane, read
the manual. You can also skip the Zeppelin section.)

 ZEPPELIN

 Give the tickets to the man. Now, have Henry walk over to the piano player,
while Indy waits by the locked door (near the entrance). Let Henry give the
coins to the piano player. When the music starts and the Nazi comes out of the
room, have Indy walk inside, open the locker, and steal the wrench. Quickly,
walk out of the room.

 Now, use the wrench in the hole (near the locked door) and turn the wrench.
Climb up the ladder. (You may want to save the game before you continue.) You
will appear on the Zeppelin catwalks. Keep walking until you arrive at the
biplane under the Zeppelin. (This section takes practice.)

 After flying in the biplane, you _will_ get shot down. When you land, you will
be on a farm. Walk over to the car on your left and use it. For the border
guards, show them the pass you had signed by Hitler.

 You are now on your way to Iskanderun, where the final resting place of the
Holy Grail is located!


 THE GRAIL TEMPLE

 When you enter the Grail temple, you will be unable to save or load the game.
Be sure to save it before you enter.

 THE FIRST CHALLENGE: ONLY THE PENTINENT MAN WILL PASS

 To get past the first challenge, look in your _real_ Grail Diary (the one that
came in the game) and find the picture with the "X" in it. Click the cursor on
the same place as the "X" in the game.

 THE SECOND CHALLENGE: THE FOOTSTEPS OF GOD

Look at the top of the screen and note the way GOD is spelled. You can only
walk on the letters that appear in the word. For example, if you see JEHOBA on
the screen you can walk on J, E, H, O, B, and A.

 THE THIRD CHALLENGE: LEAP FROM THE LION'S HEAD

 You must click on a certain point on the opposite side of the giant chasm.
Experiment until you find a place that works for you.

 THE KNIGHT AND THE GRAIL

 When you have made it to the knight, it is time to choose a Grail. Use the
information from earlier in the game to pick the correct one. When you choose
the Grail you think is the _real_ one, bring it over to the holy water and fill
it.

 After you have saved your father, you can do a few things. First, you can get
the Grail and give it back to the knight. Second, you can let Elsa take the
Grail, then get the Grail and return it to the knight. Or, you can take the
Grail and try to leave. The first choice is the best of the three.

 Congratulations on solving INDY!

 FIGHTING HINTS

 Each person can develop a good way to fight. I have found a method that seems
to work quite often: Push a punch button very quickly (about four times), then
back up two times. Keep repeating this procedure until the Nazi is dead.
