                              SKID ROW

                              presents
 
                         QUEST for GLORY II
              Famous Adventurer's Correspondence School  
 

ADVANCED ADVENTURING COURSE

So you had to be a Hero?

   Now that you've been on your own in the real world of high-
powered adventuring, you have probably discovered that there is more
to this hero business than was covered in your Famous Adventurer's
Correspondence School Handbook.  (After all, why should we tell you 
everything at once when we can make big bucks selling you additional
manuals?)

   In your everday Quest for Glory, you are bound to encounter situations
of such magnitude and unbelievable stress that you probably say to
yourself, "Maybe I should have taken the Famous Accountants' 
Correspondence Course, instead."

   Relax.  We here at the Famous Adventurer's Correspondence School 
have the information you need.  For just 10 golds, plus 25 silvers
shipping and handling, we will send you your free copy of the Famous
Adventurers' Correspondence School's "Advanced Adventuring Manual".
This manual will help you survive the everyday stress and strain of
marauding monsters, malicious magic, and corporate managers to
achieve the acme of your adventuring activities.

   You, too, can become an "Advanced Adventurer".  Guaranteed, or
double your money back (minus shipping and handling charges).

FAMOUS ADVENTURER'S
CORRESPONDENCE SCHOOL
12345 Aerris Way
Silmaria

                            Table of Contents

                     How to be an Advanced Adventurer

What is an Advanced Adventurer? ................................... 1

Combat Careers .................................................... 3

Advanced Magic Using .............................................. 5

Wizard's Institute of Technology .................................. 5

Occult Occupations ................................................ 6

Basic Spell Usage ................................................. 7

Advanced Spell Usage .............................................. 8

Advanced Thieving Techniques ...................................... 9

Purloiner's Positions ............................................. 10

Professional Adventuring Organizations ............................ 11

Special Southern Supplement ....................................... 13

Page 1 follows:
---------------

                   How to be an ADVANCED Adventurer

What is an Advanced Adventurer?

   When an adventurer becomes bored with bravery, fatigued with fighting,
or ho-hummed about heroics, it's time to start thinking upward mobility.
You're in the hero business now, and you can't just rest on your laurels.
You must explore strange new worlds, seek out new life and new
civilizations.  A hero must boldly go where no man (or woman) has gone
before - and come back alive. 

   Advanced Fighting 

   Now that you've mastered the basics of combat - the thrusty thrust,
the brash slash, the ordinary parry, and the hodge-podge dodge - it's
time to discuss the backbone of battle, the essence of the fracas, the 
gist of the joust, the peanut butter and jelly of true pugnacity -
Strategy and Tactics.  As the Old Adventurer would put it:

         " You got to know when to fight'em
 
            Know when to be polite to'em,
 
      Know when to dodge away and know when to run
 
            You've got to practice fighting
 
                Any time you're able,
 
       'Cause there ain't (sic) no time for practice,
 
             When the monsters come." 

   Now it is true that some people confuse strategy with tactics,
and vice versa.  Here is a simple mnemonic to help you keep straight
which one is which:

   "If it is prophylactic and emphatically didactic, then it's not tactic." 
 
Page 3 follows:
---------------

Combat Careers
 
Career Paths for the Successful Fighter

Warlord

Hero

Paladin

Career Paths for the Not-Quite-So-Successful Fighter

Combat Instructor

Security Guard

Babysitter

Warlord 

   This is the perfect job for the aggressive, gung-ho type fighter. 
If you have the moxie for mayhem, the obsession for aggression, the
resolution for revolution, and a few friends, then you, too, can have
a successful career in pillaging and looting.  Imagine yourself at
the head of an entire army, storming the countryside and leaving only
havoc in your wake.  If you love the smell of naphtha in the morning,
this is the job for you.

     Remember - it's "Loot before pillage, sack before burn". 

Hero 

   To be a Hero is, of course, one of the preferred occupations for 
Fighters of all times and climes.  Receiving the adulation of a 
grateful peasantry (and often as not a few members of the fairer -
which which is to say, preferred - sex) can do wonders for your ego.
The more substantial rewards from those of means can also be very useful
when it comes time to advance one's education and career with our 
marvellous Famous Adventurers' Correspondence School supplementary
materials.

Page 4 follows:
---------------

Paladin 

   The Paladin is the Goody-Two-Shoes of champions and the Dudley-Do-
Right of defenders.  The job is clearly not for everyone.  If you are
willing to be bold for no gold, risk your name without acclaim and
campaign without gain, this could be the occupation for your emulation.
A Paladin is a hero's hero (and he can have him).  Frankly, Paladins
constantly become involved in extremely dangerous quests like slaying
Dragons, and rarely survive long enough (or earn enough) to pruchase
our all-important F.A.C.S. pamphlets. 

Combat Instructor 


   It has often been said that "Those who can, do, while those who
teach, survive."  Of course, this is generally repeated only by those
who have never taught.  Combat instructors, Drill Sergeants, Samurai
Sensei and others of their ilk have two great advantages over most
members of the violent vocations - they collect steady pay, and 
eventually Social Security.

Security Guard 

   If you have pangs about pain, misgivings over martyrdom, and are 
terrified of torture, then the more modest monotony of being a
watchman may be for you.  The security guard's life is fairly free
of strife, but sadly susceptible to extinction by ennui.

Babysitter

   There are few jobs more dangerous, or less rewarding, than that of
the Combat Nanny.  On the whole, you're better off charging Dragons
than changing diapers.

Page 5 follows:
---------------

Advanced Magic Using

   Having mastered the basics of magic and gained skill in a few spells,
it comes the time for a fledging Thaumaturge to figure out what he (or
she) wants to do with him-(or her-) self.  It is all very well and good
going around impressing the rubes with a few trivial gestures of your
hands, or broiling a few brigands with your Flame Darts, but merely
showing off your magic is hardly the be-all, end-all for a professional.
Besides, it doesn't pay particularly well.

   Now is the time to go beyond what you learned in Spellcasting 101.
If you are tired of low-paying jobs with no security, you need to
quest for glory.  You, too, can be upwardly mobile!  It's time to
start learning some real magic.

   The best way to improve the status of your spells is to travel to
a place where Wizards congregate.  Through the city of Shapeir travel
many experienced magic users on their way to the Wizard's Institute
of Technocery.  This city is thus a good source for advanced scrolls.
Whether you wish to commit to the study and time it takes to become
a true Wizard, or just pick up a few incantations, a journey to 
Shapeir is definitely a step up the magical corporate ladder.

Wizard's Institute of Technology

   The Wizard's Institute of Technocery, or WIT, is the ultimate
University of the Occult.  Within its ivory towers, the aspiring
Wizard can learn the inner nature of magic.  Of course, it takes time,
dedication, and a true love of learning to master the many mysteries, to
become the complete conjuror.

   Naturally, the Wizards of WIT do not wish to be found by any riff-
raff of a would-be wonder-worker.  After all, any yahoo can do hoodoo,
but WIT's hallowed halls are reserved for the few, the proud, the elite -
the true Wizards.  While the entrance to WIT is reputed to be in Shapeir,
the Institute itself is said to exist on another plane.  The entrance is
well-hidden from all but those meant to find it.  If you are among them,
careful application of your knowledge should soon point the way.

   Before you can become a full-fledged student, you will be given a 
series of entrance examinations.  Failure is not held against you - 
as long as you are willing to try again.  These trials are a learning 
experience in themselves. 
 
Page 6 follows:
---------------

Occult Occupations

Career Paths for the Successful Magic User

Royal Magician

Wizard

Archmage

Career Paths for the Not-Quite-So-Successful Magic User

Court Jester

Computer Programmer

Corporate Magician

Royal Magician

   While perhaps not the most prestigious of possible professions for
the profound prestidigitator, the position of palace performer is
preferable to pecuniary paupacy.  More precisely, it pays.

   Wizard

   Weigher of wonders, theorist of thaumaturgy, mediator on mysteries,
the wandering Wizard is a savant of sorcery, a watcher of weird, and an
academician of enchantments.  Delving deep in mystical manuscripts, the
Wizard seeks to know the True Meaning of Life, the Universe, and how
to do the voodoo that the Zulu do to you.

Archmage

   The Archmage is the epitome of Power.  the elite of enchanters, the 
creme de la creme of conjurers, the nonpareil of necromancers.  
Archmages are pretty hot stuff, in fact.

Court Jester

   Whilst not as dignified as some of the other occupations.  Court
Jesters, Stage Magicians and street entertainers have one thing that
makes them the envy of other professions - an audience.  Having someone
to appreciate the subtle spin-

Page 7 follows:
---------------

ning of a spell, the incalculable incoherence of your incantations,
or just to laugh at your jokes, is well worth the price you pay in
prestige.

Computer Programmer

   Just because you are incompetent at incantations, klutzy at
conjurations, or a dud at divination does not mean you can't work
magic.  You, too, can have a successful career in computer programming.
Just send away to our Famous Computer Programmer's Correspondence
School for further details.

Corporate Manager

   If you prefer the power of the pretty bureaucrat - having people
constantly wait upon you, passign down directives on Wednesday
which must be completed by Tuesday, and sitting in an air-conditioned
office while less clever Magic Users are flame-broiling fiends in the
hot Summer sun - then the job of Corporate Manager is for you.  Let
others do your work for you.  Even the simplest Calm spell is more
sufficient to make friends and influence people, encouraging those of
lesser ability (such as Computer Programmers) to work long hours of
unpaid overtime on your behalf.

Basic Spell Usage

   The more skill a Magic User has with a spell, the greater the
effect and duration of the spell.

Calm

   This was developed for avoiding awkward situations, such as physical 
combat.  It relaxes the natural aggressive tendencies of things in the 
area of the spell for a short duration.  Once in actual combat, however, 
it is ineffective.  A calmed opponent will just calmly eat you.

   With advanced skills in this spell, it is possible to calm even non-
living things.

Dazzle

   Erasmus's Razzle Dazzle produces a bright flash of magic which 
temporarily blinds an opponent.  This, of course, presupposes that 
the opponent has eyes.

Detect Magic

   This spell is used to perceive an aura of magical power which 
surrounds objects which have had spells cast upon them.  It can also 
be used to find invisible creatures and things. 

Page 8 follows:
---------------

Flame Dart

   This offensive spell projects a ball of magical fire towards an 
object. 

Open 

   This intially is useful fo unlocking simple locks, but can be used 
to open doors when the caster is sufficiently skilled.  Unfortunately, 
it will not affect most magical locks or doors, or those doors barred 
on the other side. 

Trigger

   R. Roger's Reactivating Ritual, or "Trigger", is used to 'set off' 
operating magical spells already cast upon some object.  Thus a Magic 
User can avoid damage from magical traps.  Trigger can sometimes be 
used to both 'turn on' and 'turn off' certain spells. 

Zap

   The Leyden's Latent 'Lectrical Discharge spell, or 'Zap', allows a 
caster to place magical energy upon a weapon.  This is released when 
the weapon strikes an opponent, increasing the amount of damage. 
 
Advanced Spell Usage

Force Bolt 

   Aronson's Arcane Arbalest of Action and Reaction, or 'Force Bolt', 
is a magical globe of energy which is used to push against something in 
the distance.  Becasue it can 'bounce' off an object, it can be used 
against things not in direct line of sight.  When properly aimed, a 
Force Bolt can be made to bounce several times before releasing all 
of its energy.  It may be used as an offensive spell. 

Levitate

   Ellen's Enchanted Elevator, or 'Levitate', spell allows the spell 
caster to move up and down at will.  This is ideal for getting the 
book you need off the top shelf of your library or for dusting the top 
of your refrigerator.  This spell continually drains the caster's Spell 
Points while in use.

Reversal

   Kirkov's Cosmic Karma Cookies or 'Reversal' reflects offensive 
spells back upon the caster.  Cast this spell before entering magical 
combat.  It should be noted that when two opposing Magic Users both 
use this spell, the results can be very dangerous to spectators.

Page 9 follows:
---------------

Advanced Thieving Techniques

Warning: If you have not studied the F.A.C.S. Cutpurses' Curriculum, do
NOT read this section!  This contains classified, top-secret 
information for Theieves' eyes only.

   You have your toolkit and the skill to unlock the securest safe,
the stealth to sneak by the surliest security guards, and the dexterity
to direct your dagger to your desired destination.  You practice 
daily; honing your skills every chance you get to create that finely
tuned machine that is your body.  Now it is time to talk about the
tools of the trade.

   Rope - In the words of the immortal Sam 'the Man' Ganges, "You 
   gotta scope the rope if you wanta cope." 

   Oil - This is often overlooked as an essential part of the thief's
   equipment, but it happens to be very handy.  Squeaky hinges on  
   cabinets and doors can create the creak that causes the cops to 
   capture a crook.  Oiling hinges reduces the noise considerably. 
   Oil is also useful for moving heavy objects.

   Thief Sign - The recognition signal used among Thieves is one of
   the most closely-held secrets of the Consolidated Thieves' Guilds.
   But you are a Thief, right?  No peeking now, the rest of you!

   O.K.  To make the top-secret Thieves' sign, first place your thumb 
   upon your nose with the hand held perpendicular to your face, and 
   the fingers outspread.  Then wiggle your fingers while focusing 
   your eyes upon your thumb and patting your belly with your free 
   hand.  You should make the sign whenever you believe yourself to be 
   in the presence of a fellow practitioner.  However, you should be 
   aware that not all politicians will recognize this symbol - some 
   of them are scabs.

   Improvisation - There does come a time when even the best of thieves
   gets caught without his equipment, and he really needs to open a lock.
   True, you may be standing before a locked door at the dead-end of a
   corridor of the castle of the black  prince who has sworn an oath
   to torture all thieves, with his two neanderthal guards marching
   towards you, only to discover that you left your lockpick in the
   shirt that you sent to the laundry this morning, but it is very
   important in this sort of situation not to panic.  Analyse the 
   situation.  Is the door simply latched on the other side?  If so,
   a simple insertion of your Thieves' Guild card should flip the latch.
   Is the door unlockable with a skeleton key?  Then any thin, metal
   probe such as the pin that was in the black prince's feathered hat 
   which you just happen to find in 

Page 10 follows:
----------------

   your backpack can be used to click the lock.  Is the door firmly
   bolted on the other side and does it resist all your attempts at 
   breaking it down?  Then put the hat of the black prince on your 
   head covering most of your face, stroll towards the guards, 
   give them a lecture about their appearance, telling them not to 
   slouch, letting them know that you will not tolerate sloppiness, 
   and then push on past, leaving them to think that the black 
   prince has poor taste in clothes combinations.  All you need is a 
   little imagination, and you can get through any situation.

 
 
Purloiner's Positions

Career Paths for the Successful Thief

Playboy 

Chief Thief

Godfather

Career Paths for the Not-Quite-So-Successful Thief

Tax Accountant

Politician

CEO

Playboy

   What thief can't imagine himself (or herself) in a fancy oceanside
resort, gambling and gallivanting by day with beautiful (or handsome)
members of the opposite (or whatever) sex unable to keep their hands 
off you, and steathily sneaking by night into the cabins of the rich
tourists and accumulating more wealth to fritter away the next day?

Chief Thief 

   Rising to the head of the of the Thieves' Guild is high status in
this workaday world.  To gain this coveted position, it is important 
to have contacts.  Be sure to impress any Chief Thieves you meet and
go out of your way to demonstrate your talents.  Remember, it's not
who you know, it's whether they know you. 

Page 11 follows:
----------------

Godfather

   To really become a Godfather, it helps to have plenty of relatives.
You must learn to use bad grammar and mumble when you speak.  Above all,
be generous.  If someone has something you want, make him an offer he
can't refuse.

Tax Accountant

   If you think juggling figures and balancing budgets doesn't
take a lot of agility, try it someday.  For a real test of agility,
try balancing two sets of books!

Politician

   It's a dirty job, but somebody's got to do it.

CEO

   See politician.

Professional Adventuring Organizations

Adventurer's Guild
 
   This place is where adventurers can get together, relax, and chat
about monsters.  It is a good place to catch up with the local gossip
and to learn about local employment situations.  Be sure to sign in
when you first enter a strange town to give yourself official 
Adventurer Status.  Otherwise, the locals might mistake you for
a vagrant and have you arrested.  It's an easy mistake.

Eternal Order of Fighter (EOF)

   This organization is for real Heroes.  This means no pansy Magic Users
or slimy Thief scum will be admitted.  Only the best and the baddest
can join the 'Eternal Order of Fighters'.  You got to have true grit 
and heavy mettle.  We're glad you're bad and we're keen you're mean.
"EOF - The Guts, The Glory, The Greatest!" Membership by invitation only.

Thieves' Guild

   This benevolent organization provides a thief with the comfort of a
home away from home.  Where else can you relax in public knowing noone
is looking through the Wanted ads for you?  Where else can you be certain
the jolly

Page 12 follows:
----------------

stranger next to you is attempting to pick your pocket?  How else can
you be bailed out of a strange jail?

   The way to locate the local Theives' Guild is to contact a local 
thief by use of the Thieves' Sign.  Once you have found the guild and 
identified yourself, it is not uncommon to be asked to prove your 
identity.  A simple test is often given to prove your worth to the 
organization.  Accomplishing this trial will improve your position 
in the guild.  Failing the test will earn you the rank of 'convict.'
It is recommended that you do not fail.

Page 13 follows:
----------------

Special Southern Supplement

The Land of Shapeir

   Shapeir is a small Sultanate in the South.  It consists of two
major mountain ranges surrounding a desert of sand dunes.  Its climate
is arid and extremely hot in the Summer.  It has two major cities:
the capital, Shapeir, in the north, and Raseir in the south.  Shapeir's
principal income is from imports and exports as it is along a major trade 
route.  It is noted for its exotic scenery and fascinating bazaars.

Background and History

   The twin citied were built around Katta settlements (see Sentients of
Shapeir) protected by mountain barriers.  Magical springs which never
run dry create the central fountains of the cities.  Both Raseir and
Shapeir were designed as mirrored cities, with the Sultan's Palace in
Shapeir, and the Amir's in Raseir.

   Some thousand years ago, a Marid called Iblis (see Djinn) attempted 
to rule the world and turn all men to slaves.  He created a city in the 
desert and tried to summon the Djinn to his side.  The Sultan Suleiman bin
Daoud in turn summoned all the magical Djinn he could bind, and a great
war occured.  Iblis was defeated and bound into the form of a statue.
Ruins remain near Raseir of what is now called the 'Forbidden City.'

   The Sultan is the absolute ruler of the realm.  The current Sultan,
Haruan alRashid, is noted for his wisdom and judgement.  The Emir is the
governor of Raseir.  During the past year, The Emir of Raseir is rumored
to have disappeared, and there have been diquieting tales about the 
current political situation.

Page 14 follows:
----------------
 
Desert Survival

Water - Without it, you are just a heap of bones covered with sand.  It
is best to carry several waterskins when traveling in the desert. 
Water is available in the cities and at occasional oasis.

Saurus - The friend you can depend upon for roaming the dunes.  This
creature makes an excellent mount.  It is fearless, loyal, and quick
to defend its master against monsters.  It is obedient and willing to go
wherever its master wishes.  Most critically, it can always find its
way back to the place where it is stabled, so it never gets lost.  A
properly trained Saurus will understand such simple commands as
"go home," "Stay," and "Get off my foot."  Your Saurus - Don't leave
town without it.

Caravans - For long distance travel of any sort, it is best to join a
caravan.

Money

   The basic coin of the realm is the Dinar, a gold coin equal in value
to the gold coin of Spielburg.  The people of Shapeir also use centimes,
which are small brass disks.  The current rate of exchange is one silver
to ten centimes, and ten silvers (or one gold) to one dinar.

   When visiting the city of Shapeir, it is wisest to first seek out a
Money Changer, who will exchange your coins.  This person will usually 
retain a small percentage as an exchange fee.

Sentients of Shapeir

There are several intelligent races associated with this region.

Humans 

   Humans are a relatively new race to this area.  They created the cities 
and towns which occasionally dot the landscape of Shapeir.

Gnomes

   Small humanoids with a frivolous outlook on life.  Gnomes, as 
always, go anywhere they choose to go in order to have fun.  Since
mankind seems to be the butt of many of their jokes, wherever humans
congest, Gnomes are pests, as they frequently know magic.  If you 
become the victim of one of their practical jokes, it is best to grin
and bear it.

Katta 

   Katta are small feline-like humanoids which have adapted well to 
dealing with human society.  They resided for centuries in the region around
where Raseir was built., but are now found throughout the Southern
regions.  They are gifted artisans and talented merchants.

Page 16 follows:
----------------

Centaurs

   Half horse and half human, the Centaurs roam the deserts of Shapeir 
in nomadic herds.  They make excellent guides for this region, since they
take pride in knowing the desert like the tips of their tails.  Centaurs
are extremely honorable, but have no sense of humor.  They do not get 
along well with Gnomes.

Liontaurs

   The Liontaur looks like a cross between a human and a lion.  They 
reside primarily to the south of Shapeir in their great kingdoms of 
Tarna.  Occasionally a young male will wander into the Shapeir lands. 
Liontaurs are fierce fighters and very proud, so it is best not to 
annoy them. 

The Land of Enchantment

When Shapeir is called the 'land of enchantment', it is not simply
a motto.  There are many magical beings residing here.

Djinn

   Djinn and their relatives, the Djinn, Shaitan, Ifreet and Marid, 
are magical creatures of high intelligence found primarily around the 
lands of the Shapeir.  They are all shape-changers, but most frequently
take man-like forms.  They are occasionally found trapped in items such 
as bottles and rings.  Releasing a Djinni from such an item can be very 
dangerous. 
 
              Djann take the shape of animals, live in the mountainous 
              areas, and are seldom seen.
  
              Djinn are commonly associated with air.  Tales are told 
              of wishes being granted to whomever releases a Djinn from 
              an item.  Tales are also told of the Djinn destroying the 
              one who released him.
 
              Shaitan prefer to live around streams and running water. 
              As this is an extremely arid region, Shaitan are 
              extremely rare. 
 
              Ifreet are fiery creatures that prefer the remote dunes 
              of the desert. 

              Marid are the most powerful of all the Djinn.

Page 18 follows:
----------------

Enchanted Creatures

   Much of the magic in Shapeir has to do with shape-changing.  It is
not uncommon for humans to be turned into animals, animals into humans,
and snakes into Trademark Lawyers.  It is wise to be wary around Wizards 
and Djinn to avoid this occupational hazard.

Endemic Monsters of the Desert Regions

   Creatures endemic to the desert regions have one outstanding
characteristic - they are tough to kill.  The evolutionary reasons
for this are rather obvious.  A monster, as always, is defined as
"that which attacks before asking questions".

Jackalman

   Jackalmen are jackal-like humanoids that revel in packs.  They are
cunning and prefer to attack things previously wounded.

Brigand 

   Desert brigands roam the desert in search of unwary travelers
to waylay.  They are tough fighters and experts at desert survival. 
Tribes of brigands occasionally band together to attack caravans.

Griffin

   The griffin is a highly intelligent creature which seldom attacks
humans.  However, this cross between an eagle and a lion is a
ferocious fighter, and is extremely tough.  it is difficult to kill,
and will retreat from battle if seriously injured.  Once its anger
has been aroused, however, it will not forget an enemy.  Griffins
can be found nesting on the rocky ledges of the mountains surrounding 
the desert regions.

Terrorsaurus

   This is an extremely quick-footed creature well adapted for racing
down and disemboweling prey with the deadly claws upon its hind feet.
Like most species of sauruses, this one is not noted for its brains.

Moose

   The rare southern desert Moose, a benevolent and fraternal creature,
is frequently found congregating in groups around a drinking hole.
It is extremely dangerous to approach at such a time, since you will
probably be forced to wear a silly hat and be dunked into the pool.
It is also advised to avoid the stampede when the Moose discover that
the only thing to drink is water.

Page 20 follows:
----------------

Scorpion

   The giant black desert Scorpion is one of the deadliest creatures
upon the sands.  Its claws are capable of inflicting deep wounds.
The tail has a stinger which contains a deadly poison.  One sting
brings death to the one stung.  Anti-venom pills are available, but
are of no avail against multiple stings.  Unless a fighter has an
extremely good defense against the tail, he or she should avoid this
monster.  Retreat from combat usually means a stab in the back.

Magical Creatures

Elementals
 
   Elementals are created by magical spells placed upon the primal 
elements of Earth, Air, Water, Pizza and Fire (Some theoreticians
suggest that there are only four real elements, but most modern
scholars agree that fireis undoubtedly a basic element).  The Elementals
have the characteristics of their associated element.

Masikh
 
   This distant relative of the Djinn is frightening and dangerous 
to encounter.  It is invisible, distinguished only by the movement in 
the sands and the fearful reactions of animals in their vicinity. 
Ghouls
 
   Supernatural creatures of the undead which prey upon the living. 
The very touch of one's claws has a chilling effect upon the victim 
similar to frostbite.  The more wounds the ghoul makes, the more the 
victim's movements are slowed, until he finally collapses.  It is best 
to avoid damage from Ghouls entirely. 

SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW
