                                 SKID ROW

                                 presents

                     QUEST for GLORY II: TRIAL by FIRE
 
                             Technical Manual

Page 1 follows:
---------------

   Table of Contents
 
What is Quest for Glory? .................. 2

Creating a Character ...................... 2

The Story thus Far ........................ 6

Living in this Crazy World ................ 7

Combat .................................... 9

   How to Read this Manual

All Systems ............................... 12

Amiga ..................................... 16

All Systems - How to Play ................. 16

Trial by Fire Menus ....................... 18

Communicating with Quest for Glory ........ 21

Interacting with Quest for Glory .......... 23

Page 2 follows:
---------------

WHAT IS QUEST FOR GLORY?

   Quest for Glory combines the character development and combat of
fantasy role-playing games with the basic adventure game concept
of exploring and solving its puzzles.  Trial by Fire is the second
Quest for Glory scenario.

   The essence of role-playing is that you must try to think as your
character would when faced with a dilemma.  In Quest for Glory II, you
can choose from three basic character types - the strong fighter,
the mysterious magician, or the wily thief.  Each has the same goal:
to find Arus al-Din and restore him to the rank of Emir of Raseir.
Each character will, however, set about accomplishing that goal in a
different way.  The magician may use spells to overcome some obstacles,
but might not survive a pitched battle with a monster.  The thief must
find a crafty way around the same problem that the fighter or magic
user would approach directly.

   Experience can be a tremendous asset to you as a hero.  Your
attributes will improve as you play the game.  Tasks that are beyond
your ability early on may become less difficult as your skills
improve.

   Conversation is a very important element of Trial by Fire.  You
will meet many strange people and creatures in Shapeir.  To learn about
your surroundings and your quest, it will be necessary to speak with
everyone you meet.  Like your character, the beings you meet will
have distinct personalities, and their skill and knowledge may lie
in different areas.  You'll want to ask specific questions, and find
out all you can.

   Every hero must deal with his share of foul and ferocious monsters.
If you want to be a hero, you'll have to fight or avoid them, as they
don't tend to favor discussion.  Each battle you fight with provide
you with valuable experience, and many victories will yield treasure
that you will need to buy food and equipment.

   A hero's life isn't always serious, though.  Between desperate
encounters with terrible monsters and life-and-death decisions lie
many light-hearted, humorous and downright silly moments.  Shapeir
is a strange place with a multi-faceted personality, as you will
soon see.

Creating a Character

   Before beginning your adventure, you'll choose from three basic
character types - The Fighter, The Magic User, or The Thief.  Your
selection will determine much about the sorts of obstacles you will
encounter, and the means by which you will over-

Page 3 follows:
---------------

come them.  Choose CREATE CHARACTER from the starting screen.  You will
see the character selection screen.  Choose the highlighted character
from the character selection screen by pressing [ENTER] key or by
pointing with your mouse and clicking (multi-button mouse users will
use the left button).


First of all, you can import your character from Quest for Glory I. If 
you are like me and didn't finish it, you can create a new character. 
The choices you have are Fighter, Magic-User and Thief. 
 
Importing a Character From Spielburg

   If you successfully completed Quest For Glory I: So You Want To Be
A Hero, your hero can travel to Shapeir by magic carpet and once again
help you defeat evil.

   Locate the diskette on which you saved your hero after the QFGI
victory celebration.

   Load Trial By Fire, insert the saved hero diskette into a drive
and choose IMPORT CHARACTER.  A file selector box will appear on the
screen, listing the files on the disk in drive A:.  If your Hero is
in another disk or directory, choose CHANGE DIRECTORY.

   Use your mouse or [Arrow] keys to highlight the name of the file
containing your saved Hero, then click on the Import box or press
[ENTER].

   To go back to the initial selection screen, choose CANCEL, or press
[ENTER].

   Each type of character comes with its own set of skills and abilities,
some specific to the character type, some common to all three.  Every
type has pre-assigned point values for appropriate abilities.  In
addition, you will begin the game with a 50 point 'pool' to assign to
the areas in which you wish your character to be strongest (see
Assigning Skill Points, below).

   After you have chosen a character, you must name it.  You may type
in any name you like.

The Fighter:

   The Fighter depends upon his skill with weapons, his strength and
his vitality to survive the rigors of life as a Hero.  His weapon is
his sword, and his best defense is his shield.  We recommend that you
play a Fighter if this is your first Quest for Glory adventure.

The Magic-User: 

   The Magic User must rely upon his intelligence and the successful
casting of magic spells.  He can best protect himself by avoiding
close combat.

Page 4 follows:
---------------

The Thief: 

   The Thief counts on his skills, stealth, and agility.  His weapon of
choice is the dagger, and he prefers to throw it from a distance.  He
can best defend himself in combat by dodging.
 
Assigning Skill Points

   To highlight a skill, use the mouse cursor or the up and down
[Arrow] keys.  To assign points to a skill, press the right [Arrow]
key.  Each time the right [Arrow] key is pressed, 5 points will be
assigned to the highlighted skill.  Press the left [Arrow] key to
subtract 5 points from a skill.  (You may not reduce skill points
below the original value of that skill.)  For 'fine tuning' use the
[+] and [-] keys to add or subtract one point at a time.

   To attain a skill not normally available to your character type (such
as lock-picking for a fighter), choose the desired skill from the skill
menu and assign points using the procedure described above.  Acquiring
a new skill costs 10 points, which means the minimum skill level
of 5 will require 15 points from the 'Points Available' pool.  These
will be assigned automatically.

Page 5 follows:
---------------

   Points for Health, Stamina or Magic cannot be changed by you directly.
The values for these attributes will change automatically as you gain
experience, suffer damage and modify certain skills.

   Strength is important in performing physical activities, especially
combat.  The Fighter must be strong to be effective.

   Intelligence will enable the Magic User to succesfully learn and
cast spells, and will benefit all characters when engaged in mental
activities, such as out-thinking opponents in combat, or trying to
think effectively.

   Agility is important during combat, and vital to lock-picking and
stealth.  The Thief cannot prosper without high agility.

   Vitality determines how much damage a character can sustain, and
how quickly he will recover from damage and strenuous physical activity.
High vitality is particularly useful to the Fighter.

   Luck can aid you in many subtle and mysterious ways, and is especially
important to the Thief.

   Honor aids your interactions with those characters who live their
lives by a code of honor.  Honor points must be earned - they can not
be assigned directly.

Skills:

   Weapon Skill determines the character's ability to land a successful
blow in combat.

   Parry is the ability to block an opponent's blow using a wepon or
shield.

   Dodge is a skill used to avoid a blow by ducking or sidestepping it.

   Stealth is the art of moving quietly and discreetly, taking advantage
of shadows and other camouflage when sneaking around.

   Pick Locks is the skill that allows a character to triumph over locked
doors, chests, etc.  A lock pick of thief's tool kit is necessary
to use this skill.

   Throw determines your character's aptitude for throwing and
accurately hitting a target with a small object such as a rock or a
dagger.

   Climb is the skill that allows a character to scale difficult
surfaces.

   Magic is the basic skill required to learn and cast magical spells.

   Communication is the skill of putting your thoughts in order and
expressing your self effectively to others.

Page 6 follows:
---------------

   Each character also posseses attributes that are set automatically
based on certain skills and abilities:

   Health Points gauge the amount of damage a character can suffer
before he will die.

   Stamina Points determine how much energy a character has to perform
physical activities.  When Stamina points are low, the character is
tired.  He will fight less effectively, and may be injured more easily.

   Magic Points measure the amount of mana or magical energy a
character has, and therefore how much magic he can perform.  When magic
points are gone, the character will be unable to cast spells.

   Skills and abilities improve with practice.  The skills your
character exercises frequently will improve more rapidly, while
those left unused will remain fixed at their original levels.
Your character can only advance in skills in which he has at least
five points.

   The Story Thus Far...


   You begin Trial By Fire flush with the success of your last
adventure (as depicted in Quest for Glory I: So You Wan To Be A Hero).
As you recall, you arrived in Spielburg with little but your Famous
Adventurers' Correspondence School diploma.  But now you are the
Hero of Spielburg, having defeated the brigands and driven Baba Yaga
from the valley.  You also made many important friends, including the
Archmage Erasmus (and his faithful companion Fenrus), and the Baron
Stefan von Spielburg.  Your friendship with the Kattas Shema and
Shameen, and Abdulla Doo the Merchant, has led to your current quest.

   You are now riding with Abdulla and the Kattas on the merchant's
magical carpet, recovered from the briagand's stolen treasures.
After a long and harrowing journey, you at last arrive in the magnificent
city of Shapeir.  Unfortunately, just when you thought you could take
a well-earned rest, you discover that Shapeir has problems of its own.
A Hero is needed here, too!

   Now you must become your character, and learn to think as he would,
use his unique skills to experience the land of Shapeir, and be a Hero
on your Quest for Glory.

Page 7 follows:
---------------

Living in this Crazy World

   Just as in real life, there are basic things a person must do to
stay alive.  You will need to eat a couple of meals each day.  If you
are carrying food, you'll eat automatically, but try not to run out
of rations.  Be especially careful not to run out of water. In the
desert, water is life itself.

   You'll also need a certain amount of rest or sleep to regain Health,
Stamina and Magic points.  Without rest or sleep you will use these
points quickly.  Sleep is best accomplished in the safety of an inn.

   Also, as in real life, basic necessities often cost money.  To earn
money, you can fulfill a quest (thereby obtaining a reward), or defeat
a wealthy monster.  The thief has other options.  The coin of the realm
of Shapeir is unlike that of Spielburg.  Here, 100 brass centimes=
1 golden dinar.  Supplies such as food, equipment, magical spells
and healing points can be purchased from the local merchants.

   You will carry most of your equipment in a backpack.  The amount you
can carry is determined by your strength and the weight of the
equipment.

   If for some reason you are in a hurry (a monster on your tail, or
some such thing), type run to move more quickly.  Don't run too far
though, or you'll soon become tired.  Type walk to resume walking
normally.  Characters with points assigned to STEALTH can also sneak
when appropriate.

Finding Your Way Around Shapeir

   The city of Shapeir, in contrast to the quaint Alpine village of
Spielburg, is an ancient and thriving metropolis.  Many first-time
visitors find Shapeir's dense maze of streets and alleyways almost
overwhelming.  Outside the gates is the seemingly endless Shapeir
Desert.

   The keys to keeping yourself oriented in this vast realm are proper
use of a map and compass, taking advantage of such clues as street
signs and the knowledge of local citizens.

The Map

   Purchasing a map in the game will help your character find his way
around the streets of Shapeir without getting hopelessly lost.  Once
your character has a map, you can type "use map" anywhere in the streets
and plazas of Shapeir.  Then, simply place your cursor on a map location,
click the mouse button or press [ENTER], and your character

Page 8 follows:
---------------

will walk directly there (unless, of course, something gets in his way).
Until you have visited a location (such as a particular shop), it will
not show up on the map.  As you explore the city, you will discover
more places and your map will become more useful.  It's better than
getting lost.

   To exit the map, press [ESC].

The Compass

   A compass is a very useful item for navigating the trackless
desert, or even finding your way around town.

Street Signs

   Even natives of Shapeir sometimes need a reminder as to where they
are going and which way they are heading.  (Wizards in particular
are notorious for having dificulty in this area.)  For this reason,
street signs are prominently posted at all major intersections and in
the plazas.  Plaza signs also often include direction symbols.

Asking Directions

   One way to find locations you haven't visited yet is to talk to the
locals.  A clear, concise set of directions may be your reward.  (Of
course, that rather depends on whom you ask!)

The Saurus and Desert Travel

   Distances in the desert can be deceiving, and it is easy to lose your
way.  A well-trained desert Saurus purchased from a reliable dealer can
mean the difference between exploring the desert in comfort and death
from sunstroke or dehydration.  Whether you are walking or riding, never
travel in the desert without a full waterskin.  Night travel is also a
good way to avoid the desert blazing sun.

Winning the Game

   When you complete Quest for Glory II successfully, you will be given
the opportunity to save your character for use in Quest for Glory III:
Shadows of Darkness.  You will be asked to insert a formatted, writeable
disk.  Save this disk, as it will allow you to begin Shadows of Darkness
with your character from Trial by Fire.

Page 9 follows:
---------------

Talking to Other Characters

   You will meet many strange beings in Shapeir - some human, some
otherwise.  Most of them know things that you don't.  By speaking with
them you can gain some of that knowledge.

   Everyone you meet will understand sentences in which you ask about
something in their areas of expertise.  You might ask about magic when
speaking with the Astrologer or the Enchantress, or ask about heroes
when you visit the Adventurer's Guild Hall.  You'll want to jot down
anything that seems important, as your conversations will provide you
with most of the clues you'll need to save the land and once more prove
your worth as a Hero.

   Many of the replies to your queries will suggest additional 
questions to ask, or lead you to others who can provide you with
useful information.  For example, when you ask Shameen about his inn,
you will learn of the poet Omar.

Combat

   The world is full of monsters and villains, and if you want to stay
alive long enough to become a Hero, you really ought to learn to how to
fight them.   A clash will occur any time a monster comes near enough
to strike your character, or when you type fight.

   Combat can take place in the room where you encounter a monster 
(allowing more movement and strategy), or the screen may change to a
close-up view of the monster.

   When you encounter a monster, you will need to react quickly.  You
can throw daggers or cast an appropriate spell while the monster is 
still at a distance, or you can type fight to engage in battle.  While
in combat, you can cast some spells, but you won't have time to use
healing or other potions.

   In Quest for Glory II combat, you can Attack, Parry, Dodge, or Cast
spells (assuming your character has the appropriate skills).  All
combat moves are made with the numeric keypad (see chart).  In general,
the top row of keys (7, 8, and 9) represent Attacks, the middle row
(4, 5, and 6) represent Parries, and the bottom row (1, 2, and 3)
cause your character to Dodge.

   A Swing is a powerful blow that generally does more damage than a 
Thrust.  However, it takes slightly longer, giving your opponent a 
better chance to defend himself.  Choose a High Swing or Low Swing
to take advantage of weaknesses in your opponent's defense.

Page 10 follows:
----------------

   The direct Thrust is faster and harder to defend against, but leaves
the attacker more open to a counterthrust.  Use a Thrust when accuracy
is more important than damage, as against a fast-moving but lightly-
armored opponent.

   All attacks benefit from careful planning and timing.  Parry or Dodge
your opponent's attacks while preparing your next blow.  Attacking too
quickly will make you tire rapidly, and you will not hit as often as
when you delay your thrusts.

   The Parry, most often practiced by Fighters, is the art of blocking
your opponent's attack with your weapon or shield.  Parrying is quicker
than dodging, and less tiring, but must be timed properly to stop the
enemy attack.

   Dodging is the art of physically avoiding your opponent's attacks.
It is the only defensive skill available to most Theives and Magic
Users, and can also be crucial to Fighters when facing a clearly more
dangerous opponent.  Watch your enemy carefully - anticipate his
moves, and choose the proper Dodge accordingly.

   Spells which may ordinarliy be used in close combat include:
Flame Dart, Force Bolt, Zap, and Dazzle.  When in doubt, Run Away
(but watch your backside!)

Numberic Keyboard Keys:
 
           7- Swing High   8- Thrust        9- Swing Low 
           4- High Parry   5- Middle Parry  6- Low Parry 
           1- Dodge Left   2- Dodge Back    3- Dodge Right 

   In terms of combat strategies, timing and defense are both 
important in Quest for Glory II.  Try to strike when your opponent 
is 'open'.  and anticipate his attacks to better defend yourself.

   If you feel that the situation has gotten out of hand, you can
type escape, or press [CTRL-E] to retreat.

   Many battles can be avoided, and it might be wise at time to do
so.  Combat, how-

Page 11 follows:
----------------

ever, is one of the best ways for an aspiring Hero to practice and
improve skills.  Each time you defeat a monster, you'll gain valuable
experience that will increase your chances in future battles. 
Remember, always search the body of your opponent after winning a 
battle, for some creatures carry money or other useful items.

   In most cases, Status Bars are displayed during combat, keeping
you informed of Health, Stamina and Mana (magic energy) points for
your character.  As you become injured, Health points diminish.  You
will use Stamina points as you work hard at fighting or using your
skills.  When Stamina points are depleted, energy is drawn from 
Health.  When Health points are gone, the character is dead.  A Health
bar is also displayed for your opponent, to show how badly it is
injured.  Your opponent's Stamina is not displayed, since it would
not be obvious to you during combat.

Thief Skills

   Thief characters have two special skills: 'Pick Locks' and 
'Stealth.'  To use these skills type pick lock to gain entrance to
a locked door, or sneak to move quietly.  When you are finished
'sneaking,' type walk to resume walking normally.

Magic

   A Magic User begins the game with several spells.  For a 
thorough discussion of these spells and their effects, see the
Famous Adventurer's Correspondence School Manual, pages 5-8.
The spells he possesses will be listed in his inventory.  Also listed
will be the number of Magic Points needed to cast a spell, and the level
of skill the character has in each spell.  His spell casting will improve
with practice.  To use a spell, type cast (or press [CTRL-C]), then
type the name of the spell.

   Targeting Spells

   In Trial by Fire some spells must be targeted.  If you cast such a
spell, a targeting cursor will apppear onscreen.  The targeting
cursor is in the shape of crosshairs.  Use the mouse or [Arrow] keys
to move the cursor to where you want to cast the spell, then click
your left mouse button or press [ENTER].

   The spell's success will depend on your skill in magic in general,
and your skill with that spell in particular.  Practice pays.

Page 12 follows:
----------------

How to Read this Manual

   Throughout this manual we will use the following ways of representing
information:

   MENU COMMANDS will be capitalized.
Example: SAVE, RESTORE, QUIT, PAUSE GAME

   Typed commands will appear as bold type.
Examples: 'type: ask about shapeir' 'type: cd \sierra'

   Portions of the command line not meant to be typed will not appear
in bold type.  For example, in the line 'type: cd \sierra', 'type:'
should not be typed.

   [Keystrokes] will appear in brackets setting them off from the 
surrounding text.  The brackets are not keystrokes and should not
be typed.
Examples: [Spacebar], [Tab], [PageUp]

    Two or more keys that should be pressed at the same time will be
separated by a hyphen (-).  This hyphen is not a keystroke, and should
not be typed.
Examples: 'Press [CTRL-I] to view your inventory.'

   The terms 'disk', 'floppy disk', and 'diskette' are used 
interchangeably to refer to either 3.5" or 5.25" external data
storage disks.  The term 'hard disk' is used to refer to a fixed,
no-removable data storage disk.

ALL SYSTEMS
-----------

PLEASE NOTE:  If there is a README file on your game diskette, it may
contain important information and instructions that were not available
at the time the documentation and other materials for this game were
printed.  Failure to review the README file before installing the
program may result in unexpected consequences during the installation
and/or running of the program.

GETTING STARTED: DISKETTE DRIVES

   It is always advisable to make back-ups of your master program
diskettes to increase the life of the masters and guard against
accidents.  Follow your computer's instructions to make copies
of all game diskettes.

Page 13 follows:
----------------

   If you will be playing from diskettes rather than a hard disk,
you will also want to format a blank diskette for saving games.
In fact, saving games to diskettes is a good idea, even if you are
playing the game from your hard disk.  Follow your computer's
instructions to format a blank diskette and keep it handy for saving
your game as you play.  For some helpful tips on saving games,
see the 'Saving Your Game' (Page 22) and 'Interacting with Quest
for Glory' (Page 23) sections of this manual.

   When installing your program, you may be prompted to insert a
'Drivers' disk.  If you receive this prompt, please examine your
disks and insert the disk marked 'Drivers' and press [ENTER], so
that the appropriate drivers will be loaded.  Some games do not include
a separate 'Drivers' disk.

Page 16 follows:
----------------

AMIGA
-----

INSTALLING THE GAME

NOTE: RENAME your copies of all game disks to remove the words 'COPY
OF' from the disk name.  If the words 'COPY OF' are not removed from 
the disk names of ALL the copies, the system will continue to ask
for the original disk, and will not run the game.

   1. Boot your system with Workbench, and double-click on the INSTALL
icon.

   2. Follow the on-screen prompts, choosing your selection with the
mouse by clicking once on the item.

   3. You will be asked if you wish to install the game on your hard 
disk.  If you do NOT wish the game to be installed on your hard disk,
select NO.  If you want to install the game on your hard disk,
select YES.

   4. Using your mouse, select which hard disk you wish to install
the game onto.

   5. Follow the on-screen prompts to complete the installation.

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

From Floppy Diskettes:

   1. If you have less than 1 megabyte of memory for your Amiga, 
disconnect any external drives while your system is off.

   2. Insert Disk #1 into drive DF0:.
 
   3. Turn on your system.

From Hard Disk:

   1. Load Workbench and double-click on your hard disk icon.

   2. Double-click on the SIERRA drawer.

   3. Double-click on the drawer for the desired Sierra game.

   4. Double-click on the game icon.

Page 17 follows:
----------------

ALL SYSTEMS
-----------

HOW TO PLAY

MOVING YOUR HERO

   You may move your character on the screen with the [Arrow] keys,
the numeric keypad, or the mouse.  To halt your character's steps
with the keypad, press the number 5, or press the last used direction
key again.  Do not attempt to move the character to start and stop
continuously, resulting in very slow progress. 

   Using the mouse, position the arrow to where you want the character
to move, then click the left mouse button.

Cursor Keys:

  Up Arrow - UP
  Down Arrow - DOWN
  Left Arrow - LEFT
  Right Arrow - RIGHT

Numeric Keypad:

  7 - NW
  8 - N
  9 - NE
  4 - W
  5 - STOP
  6 - E
  1 - SW
  2 - S
  3 - SE

SPECIAL CURSORS

Quest for Glory II uses special mouse cursors during certain modes
of play.  The shape of each cursor shows you what actions are 
available to your character at that time.  If you are not using 
a mouse to play, the special cursor will usually appear in the lower
right corner of the screen to inform you of the current mode.

Dagger - When you see this cursor, you can move your character and/or
         type commands.

Face - When you see this cursor, you can neither move your character
       nor type commands.

Page 18 follows:
----------------

Shield - This cursor is for aiming targeted spells or when throwing
         something (see Targeting Spells, page 11).  You will see this
         cursor then you cast a spell that must be targeted.  Move
         the cursor to the place onscreen where you want to aim a
         spell.

TRIAL BY FIRE MENUS

   When you press [ESC], a menu bar will appear at the top of your
screen with several menus that can be opened to show the command
choices available to you.

   Use the left and right [Arrow] keys to open a menu, and the up and
down [Arrow] keys to highlight items within a menu.

   If the menu choice opens a screen with two or more choices, use the
[Tab] key to move between the choices.

   Press [ENTER] to select a highlighted command.

   Press [ESC] to return to the game without choosing a command.

      Menu........................Shortcut Command Keys

      Sierra Menu
 
         About Quest for Glory II..... [Ctrl-G]
         Help......................... [F1]
         Silly Clowns................. [Ctrl-Y]

      File Menu

         Save Game.................... [F5]
         Restore Game................. [F7]
         Restart Game................. [F9]
         Quit......................... [Ctrl-Q]

Page 19 follows:
----------------

      Game Menu

         Faster Animation............. +
         Normal Animation............. =
         Slower Animation............. -
         Sound Volume................. [Ctrl-V]
         Turn Sound on/off............ [F2]
         Arcade Difficulty............ [F4]
         Game Detail.................. [F6]
         Game Time Scale.............. [F8]

      Action Menu

         Cast Spell................... [Ctrl-C]
         Fight........................ [Ctrl-F]
         Escape....................... [Ctrl-E]
         Pause Game................... [Ctrl-p]
         Repeat Last Command.......... [F3]

      Information Menu

         Inventory.................... [Ctrl-I]/[Tab]
         Character.................... [Ctrl-S]
         Time/Day..................... [Ctrl-D]
         Ask About.................... [Ctrl-A]
         Tell About................... [Ctrl-T]
         Look At...................... [Ctrl-L]
         Read Map..................... [Ctrl-R]
         Compass Heading.............. [Ctrl-H]/[Backspace]

OTHER SHORTCUT KEYS

      [Spacebar]...................... Repeat last command
      [Shift-Click]................... Look At

Page 20 follows:
----------------

   SHIFT-CLICK* is a feature that will allow you to 'look' at a person or
object using your mouse.  Place the mouse arrow on the desired person
or object, then hold down the [SHIFT] key and press the mouse button.
You will now receive a descriptive message.

* Please note: Multi-button mouse users should use the RIGHT mouse
button, and need not press [SHIFT].

GAME SPEED CONTROL

   At times it may be useful to slow down the speed of the game
animation in order to negotiate a trcky section, or observe 
something more carefully.  At other times, you may wish to speed up
game actions.  In Quest for Glory II, animation speed is controlled by
the [+] and [-] keys, or by selecting a choice from the Speed menu,
using the mouse or [Arrow] keys.

GAME TIME SCALE

   You can adjust the speed at which days and nights pass in the game
by choosing GAME TIME SCALE from the Game menu.

GAME DETAIL

   If your computer system is running the game too slowly, you may 
want to adjust the amount of nonessential animation in the game.  At
the beginning of the game, Game Detail will be automatically set at
the best level for your system's speed.  This level will be shown
on the Game Details screen as OPTIMAL.  You can adjust the detail 
level at any time during game play by choosing Game Detail and
making another selection from the Game Detail Screen.  NOTE: WE DO NOT
RECOMMEND SETTING THE DETAIL LEVEL HIGHER THAN THE OPTIMAL LEVEL FOR
YOUR SYSTEM.

ARCADE LEVEL

   You can set the difficulty level of arcade sequences (combat and
skill-based puzzles) using the ARCADE LEVEL option in the Action menu.

USING THE MOUSE (optional)

   Your mouse will be useful to you in moving your character, and in
learning about your surroundings.  To move your character using the
mouse, position the arrow to where you want the charcter to move,
then click the left mouse button.  In many scenes, you can find out
about a person or object by using the [SHIFT-CLICK] feature described
above.

Page 21 follows:
----------------

EXAMPLES OF COMMON COMMANDS

Communicating with Quest for Glory II

   Many characters in the game will have information of one kind or
another for you.  To talk with a character, type: ask about [character,
subject or object] (for example: ask about the brigands) or press
[CTRL-A], then type [character, subject or object].  Using a mouse,
choose the menu command ask about.  Try different approaches, and
remember : talk to everyone you meet!

   You may encounter objects you need along the way.  To take an
object, type: take [object].  For example, take the note.  You will
need to use the objects you acquire as you explore.  You can try
different things such as typing: use the [object], or give the 
[object] to [character].  Different approaches to a puzzle may bring
about a different outcome.

   Pay close attention to details.  To examine objects, type look at 
the [object], (for example: look at the table), or press [CTRL-L],
then type the name of the object.

   Using a mouse you can also use the 'Shift-Click' feature described
above.  To get a general description of the current room or scene,
type look, or use your mouse to choose LOOK from the menu.

RETYPING COMMANDS

   If you wish to repeat a command select REPEAT LAST COMMAND from the 
ACTION menu or press the [CPACEBAR] or [F3].

INVENTORY/SPELL LIST

   If you wish to see the items you are carrying and/or the magic spells
you have, select INVENTORY from the Action menu, press [CTRL-I], or
press the [TAB] key.

   You will see a list of the items you are carrying and the spells
(if any).  An asterisk (*) will appear next to any spell that is 
currently active.

   Press [ENTER] or [ESC] to resume play.

PAUSING THE GAME

   If you wish to pause the game, select PAUSE from the Action
menu, press [Ctrl-P] or [ESC] or [ENTER] to resume play.

Page 22 follows:
----------------

SAVING YOUR GAME

   If you wish to save your game, select SAVE from the File menu, or
type save, or press [F5].  To allow for errors in judgement and 
creative exploration, we recommend that you frequently save your game
in progress, and that you save several different games from different
points as you play.  You will always want to save your game before
encountering potentially dangerous situations.  You should also
save your game after you have made significant progress.

Please note: If you're playing from diskettes, you must have a 
separate formatted diskette ready before you can save a game.

   If you choose to save games to your hard disk, we suggest you
create one or more saved game directories or folders on your hard disk.
See your computer's instructions for creating directories or folders.

   You may name your saved games using the standard English phrases.
For example, if you are standing by a fountain, you might call
your game 'standing by fountain', or simply 'fountain'.

RESTORING YOUR GAME

   Select RETORE from the File menu, or type retore, or press [F7].
You will be prompted to select the game you wish to restore.  (On
a single drive system, you will be prompted to insert your save
game disk.)  Highlight the desired game and select RESTORE.  If the
game you wish to restore is in a different directory, select CHANGE
DIRECTORY.

   Please note:  If you do not have a mouse, use the [TAB] key to 
toggle between RESTORE and CHANGE DIRECTORY.

QUITTING YOUR GAME

   If you wish to stop playing, select QUIT from the File menu,
or type quit, or press [CTRL-Q].

RESTARTING THE GAME

   If you wish to restart your game at any time during play, select
RESTART from the file menu, or type restart, or press [F9] key.  The 
game will begin at the opening scroll.

Page 23 follows:
----------------

INTERACTING WITH QUEST FOR GLORY II

   You can generally interact with the game by simple commands
consisting of as little as a noun and a verb.  For instance,
the command sit in the chair can be shortened to sit chair, or
even sit.  Unless otherwise directed, follow all typed commands
with [ENTER].

   A message window will appear after you enter each command, and at
other times during the game.  When you have read the message, press
[ENTER] to remove the window and resume play.

   Trial by Fire understands many common verbs.  Here are some you
might try:

   ASK        CLOSE      FIGHT    MOUNT    RIDE     STAND

   BARGAIN    DISMOUNT   GET      MOVE     RUN      TELL

   BET        DRINK      GIVE     OIL      SEARCH   THANK 
 
   BUY        DROP       GO       OPEN     SHOW     THROW

   CAST       EAT        JUMP     PICK     SIT      USE
 
   CLIMB      ESCAPE     LOOK     READ     SNEAK    WALK

   
   LOOK everywhere.  Thoroughly explore your surroundings.  Open 
doors and drawers, lookunder things and behind things for valuable
objects and clues.  Look closely at all objects you encounter or you
may miss important details.

   EXPLORE each area of the game very carefully.  Search every area
of Shapeir.  Be careful!  There are many hazards awaiting you!

   DRAW A MAP as you progress through the game.  Make a note of each
area you visit, and include information about objects found there and
dangerous areas nearby.  If you miss an area, you may miss an
important clue.

   ASK ABOUT anything you think a character might know.  This is by 
far the best way to learn what is really going on in Shapeir.  But use
discretion!  Some characters will be friendly and helpful.  They may
give you valuable information and advice.  Others may mislead you.

Page 24 follows:
----------------

   Some Common Things to Ask About:

Shapeir    Raseir   Rumor     Money     Elemental    Monster

Weather    Name     Magic     Sultan    Emir         Guild


   GET objects you think you will need.  You will come across a
number of objects that may be of use to you later, but don't overload
your character.  The amount that you can carry will vary depending 
on your strength.  You can see an inventory of items on hand by 
pressing the TAB key at any time.

   USE the items you have picked up to solve problems in the game, or
to help you to make progress and discover more clues.

   BE CAREFUL, and remain alert at all times - disaster may strike
in the most unlikely of places.

   DON'T GET DISCOURAGED.  If you come to an obstacle that seems
insurmountable, don't despair.  Spend some time exploring another
area, and come back later.  Every problem in the game has at least
one solution, and some have more than one.  Sometimes solving a 
problem one way will make it harder to solve the next one, and 
sometimes it will make it easier.  If you get stuck, you might try
backtracking to an ealier point in the game, then choosing a 
different path.  

SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW
