       BLUE'S BROTHERS SOLUTION         once again, past the hi-fi shop and
                                        jump  onto the first table.  When the
                                        trolley comes, jump over it to the
            BY DR. BUTCHER              right and throw the box at the
                                        security guard on the right of the
                                        screen.  Head left and enter store to
O.K. Before we start, take my advice    collect the records.  Exit store and
and choose Elwood.  He's a hell of a    head left to pick up the box outside
lot more agile than the fat little      the hi-fi shop.  Go right and once
Jake.                                   again jump onto the first table, then
                                        over the trolley to the right and head
     LEVEL 1. THE SHOPPING MALL.        up the flight of stairs.
                                        
Head to the right and pick up the       Once on the next floor, throw  the
first of three boxes.  Head right       box you are still carrying at the
again until outside cinema and throw    trolley.  Now, pick up the box on the
the box at the security guard.  Go      right and head left.  DO NOT THROW THE
back to the boxes and pick up the       BOX AT THE TEDDY BOY.  Instead climb
second one.  Now, head right and throw  up the steps and collect the records.
the box at the trolley.  Go back once   Once this is accomplished, jump off
again past the cinema and pick up the   the platform to the left and when the
last of the three boxes.  Head right    security guard shows his ugly puss
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
chuck the box at him as hard as you     middle as this will take away some of
can.  Enter the music store and         your records.  Pick up  box  after the
collect your guitar (it is imperative   water tanks and head down three
that you do this, otherwise you are     conveyor belts.  Walk to the left past
wasting  your bloody time).  Now head   the chain link fencing and jump off at
up the next flight of stairs and        the end to pick up the bonus heart and
collect a balloon.  Now, head straight  records.  Then head right, down right,
up, and left to burst the balloon on    and throw the box at the teddy boy.
the ceiling.  You should now fall next  Go back to the left and pick up
to three boxes.  Pick up a box and      another box.  Head right and throw it
hurl it at the waitress on your left.   at the waitress.  Head left and once
Now, head left and collect the records  again pick up a box.  Head right yet
on your way.                            again and enter the lift.  Go up two
                                        floors and throw the box at the
Climb up the ladder you see on the      security guard.  Go back down two
left and collect all the records        floors and once again pick up a box.
(avoiding the teddy boy) and then head  
back to the boxes.  Jump off to the     Now head up four floors and throw the
far right and enter the lift when it    box at the security guard on the roof.
comes down.  Go up in the lift and      Head back down three floors and pick
head  right through the two water       up one of the two boxes that are side
tanks.  Do not collect the ? in the     by side next to the lift.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Head up three floors and out on to      and you will land on a tree at the
the roof and throw the box at the       side of the building.
gardner.  Go back down and pick up      
the other box, then head back out onto  Now simply float off the side of the
the roof and throw the box at the       building, collecting records (avoiding
second gardner.  Climb to the top of    broken records) to finish the first
the tree and pick up one of the boxes   level!
on your left.  Jump onto the next box,  
and when the bird shows up, throw the   
box at him.  Now, grab the umbrella          LEVEL 2. THE CHEMICAL PLANT.
and leap across four clouds to the two  
boxes that are side by side.  Let go    Head right, jump onto the boxes, and
of the umbrella and pick up a box.      collect the records.  Jump onto the
Now jump onto the next box and once     ladder, head right, jump up, collect
again throw the box at the bird.  Now   three records and head left.  Collect
jump off the cloud and go back to the   eight records, and then head right.
tree.  Pick up another umbrella and     Jump onto second box and walk along
climb to the top of the tree.  Leap     collecting the records.  Once all have
across seven clouds, then on the        been collected, jump onto next
seventh make a giant leap to the right  platform and collect the two records.
(holding the joystick to the right)     Walk off platform to the right, then
                                        to the left to collect two records.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Now, jump up, down, over to the ? over  head left.  Jump up to the right and
to the two records and up for the       pick up the box.  Jump straight off to
other two.  Now up for the other three  the left and throw the box at the
then jump up through the pipe.          worker on the other side of the
Immediately walk right and pick up a    conveyor belt.  Now, head left, onto
box.  When the worker shows up on the   the second conveyor belt and at the
left of the screen throw the box at     end jump up onto the platform.  Climb
him.  Walk left to the two boxes and    down the ladder and walk immediately
pick one up.  Again throw it at the     right.  You need a breather before
worker.  Watch the chemicals leaking    this.  Cross all three conveyor belts
from the ceiling.  When chemicals have  and walk up the steps.  Walk right and
stopped, walk left.  Again pick up the  jump onto the boxes before the worker
other box and when the chemicals stop   clouts you.  Jump up onto the platform
walk left.  Wait for the second set of  and collect the five records.  Walk to
chemicals to stop leaking then walk     the right edge of the platform and
left and throw the box at the worker.   climb up.  Jump over to the right, up
                                        onto the box and up to collect the
Climb up the ladder, collect the two    three records.
records, and leap over the chemical     
tank.  Leap over the other two tanks    Walking is very tricky here as you're
and up onto the ladder.  Once you have  on ice.  Jump onto the box and up to
climbed the ladder crouch down and      collect the ? Walk over and jump onto
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
the next platform before the worker     Retrace your steps all the way back up
get's you.  When you see him walk to    to the chimney, only this time DON'T
the left past you quickly jump to the   JUMP OVER IT, JUMP IN IT.  Once you
right.  Now, go right, jump up and      are at the bottom of the chimney walk
collect the heart.  Quickly drop back   to the flag and you have completed
down and walk to the right.  Climb up   another level!
the ladder and up the two flights of    
steps.  Now, immediately jump up to     
the left and climb the next ladder.               LEVEL 3. THE JAIL.
                                        
Jump into the tank of water and swim    Go down the ladder, and jump off to
down.  Jump over the three obstacles,   the lift.  Pick up the box and throw
don't climb down the ladder.  Jump off  it at the guard on the right.  Go down
to the left and climb the ladder.       the ladder on the right, and cross the
Jump OVER the chimney, climb down the   chain link fencing.  When you have
boxes, and walk left off the side of    come to the end of the fencing, wait
the building.  Now, collect your        until you see the guard walking to the
microphone  and other bonuses and walk  left and drop down.  Crawl through the
left again off the side.  Keep walking  gap on the right.  Cross to the two
left, again off the side until you are  boxes and pick one up.  Jump up onto
at the begining of the level again.     the other and when the rat comes jump
                                        
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
over him to the right.  Walk to the     three ladders to pull the lever.  Drop
right and when you see the guard throw  back down the ladders and make your
the box at him.  Now, walk off the      way back to the begining of the
edge of the building and you will       tunnel.
drop next to two boxes.  Pick one up    
and throw it at the guard on the left.  Go up to the next floor and cross to
Crawl through the gap and go down the   the left (be careful as there is a
ladder on the left.  Pick up a box on   guard to the left with a rocket gun).
the right and cross left to the         If you cross without pausing you
ladder.  Climb up the ladder until the  should'nt get hit.  Climb up the
box is just visible over the top (this  ladder and cross the two gaps. climb
will kill the two guards).              carefully down the ladder.  When at
                                        the bottom crouch down immediately so
Climb to the top of the ladder, lose    you don't get hit by a rocket.  Cross
the box, and cross to the left side of  to the left and climb up the ladder
the room and pull the lever.  When the  and walk to the left.  When you see
door has opened cross to the second     the pipe underneath you push down on
ladder on the left and climb down it.   the joystick and this will enable you
Walk to the left and down the two       to slide down the pipe.  When at the
makeshift ladders.  Jump over spike's   bottom walk to the right and drop
and collect the four records.  Cross    down the ladder.  Jump onto the first
all the way to the left and up the      table and when the rat is underneath
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
it jump to the right and climb up the   cross to the far right to pick up the
ladder.  Pick up the box and climb up   gadget that you have to collect at the
the ladder on the right.  Throw the     top of the ladder, on the right hand
box at the guard and drop down the two  side of the screen.  Climb back down
ladders.  Go left and pick up one of    the  ladder and cross the two gaps.
two boxes, and throw it at the guard.   Climb up through the sliding trap door
The only way to get past the rat is to  on the left.  Cross to the left and
enter and exit each cell in turn.       climb up the ladder half way.  Wait
                                        until he's shot his rocket gun then
Climb down the ladder on the left (be   immediately jump onto the bed to
carefull of the spikes on the bottom).  catapult you up to the next floor.
Head across to the right to the         Grab one of the three boxes and throw
begining of the tunnel.  Enter tunnel   it at the guard on the right.  Jump
and pick up a box.  Walk to the right   onto the desk, and carefully walk
and throw the box at the convict.       onto the filing cabinet.
Keep walking right pick up another box  
and throw it at the guard.  Collect     Now, jump over to the boxes and pick
three records then climb up the ladder  one up.  Walk over to the bed to once
on the left.  Jump over the guard to    again catapult you up to the next
land on the table, then jump up to the  floor. Throw the box at the guard on
next level.  Jump up once again and     the right and then cross over to the
                                        camera.  Slide down the pipe three
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
times.  Climb down the two  ladders on        LEVEL 4. THE SEWAGE PLANT.
the left, and the one on the right.     
Now, climb half way down the ladder on  Jump down from the ladder, grab the
the left.  When the rat has gone to     box and throw it at the fish.  Drop
the left, jump off the ladder, walk to  down through the manhole, swim to the
the right, and climb up the other       ladder on the right and climb up.
ladder.                                 Walk right, grab the box and throw it
                                        at the big ugly fish.  Climb up the
From here on in it's pretty tricky.     ladder, go through the little tunnel,
All I can say is, it's trial and        collect all the records, then drop
error.  Climb on to the first           down through the manhole, swim to the
platform, then crouch down, move to     right, swim through the little hole
the left until you are under the        and climb up the ladder.
middle platform, then stand up and      
jump straight up.  Jump to the          Pick up the box and keep walking right
platform on the right, jump to the      (through the wall) until you drop onto
ladder on the left, jump to the         the train carriage.  Walk to the left
platform on the right, and climb down   hand side of the carriage, drop down
the ladder.  At the bottom jump off     to the middle, then when no monsters
the ladder to the left and you have     are in sight drop down to the ground.
finished level three.                   When you see a monster, chuck the box
                                        at him and leap over the remaining
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
monster.  Now, jump onto the platform   ladder, and  when you are at the
in the middle, follow directly behind   bottom walk to the  left.  Jump up to
the monster to the left, grab one of    the first lowest platform (avoiding
the boxes and throw it at him when  he  the bubble), then to the next one, and
comes towards you.  Pick up the other   again to the third.  The only way you
box and walk a few steps to the left.   can get to the top is to sacrifice
Push the joystick down and you will     yourself to this monster.  As soon as
drop to the next floor.  You should     you have jumped up to his platform and
now be very close to a little tunnel    you are doing the B.B. jig, jump to
on your right.                          the last platform and walk to the left
                                        by the records.
Drop through the tunnel and throw the   
box you are holding at the monster      Walk off the edge and hold down on the
when he comes towards you.  Walk to     joystick to avoid the bouncing fish.
the left, and  jump up onto the         Climb down whatever the hell it is you
platform.  Walk to the right, and jump  are clutching and drop into the water.
up to the next  platform.  Now jump up  Float to  the bottom, (avoiding the
the three platforms on the right, and   fish and the bubble), swim to the
across to  the platform on the left.    right, up, right, down to the bottom,
Walk off to the left, step off and      right all the way, and take that
avoid the spider.  You should now be    little tunnel to the bottom right of
standing on a ladder.  Descend the      your screen.  When the door opens,
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
swim right to the ladder (avoid the     other one, head right again and throw
fish) and climb up.  Collect the        it at the dog.  Climb up the ladder,
poster above you, drop back into the    jump up to the right, head right, jump
water and swim out through the door.    over the gap and climb up the ladder.
Now, head up to the right, up the       Climb up onto the girders and collect
ladder, avoid the spider, walk to the   all the records.  Now you have to jump
right, take the low  passage, jump      far to the right, but be careful as
into the water, right down through the  there is a woman beneath who throws
door, and up.                           objects at you.  Jump up onto the
                                        girder and pick up the box.
Climb up the ladder you see on the      
right hand side of the screen, grab a   Drop down and throw the box at the
box and throw it at the worker.  Grab   woman.  Now, head up the steps
the other box and throw it at the       (avoiding the dog), jump up and pick
monster, then walk left to the flags    up the box.  Throw it at the guard,
to finish this level.                   and go past the cement mixer
                                        collecting the records along the way.
                                        When you reach the end of the platform
    LEVEL 5.THE CONSTRUCTION SITE.      jump a little to the right because
                                        right beneath you is a fire. When you
Pick up a box, head right and throw it  see the lift coming down, jump onto
at the guard.  Go back and collect the  it.  Now, jump across to the next
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
lift, and when it reaches its highest   will eliminate them both.  Head to the
point jump across to the girder.  You   right collecting all the records, and
should now see a crane cabin.  Climb    avoiding the bloke in the suit jump up
up onto the platform above the crane,   to pick up the box.  Drop down and
up three ladders on the right and       throw the box at him.  Head right to
stand at the far left of this           the end of the girder and jump off to
platform.  When you see the boss        the far right.  Now, head left, climb
walking away from you jump across and   up and across the chainlink fencing to
pick up the box, throw the box at him   collect the contract for you to do THE
to remove him from your path.  Climb    GIG.
up the next ladder pick up the box,     
then climb up the next two ladders and  You have to circle back around from
throw it at the woman.  Go back and     where you threw the box at the first
pick up another box, and climb back up  boss.  When you jump off to the far
to throw it at the boss on the top      left again, instead of climbing up
platform.                               around the chainlink fencing to
                                        collect the contract, now just pick up
Jump onto the lift and when it reaches  the box and throw it at the boss.  You
it's highest point jump across and      now have to go back and forth,
pick up the box.  When the guard and    collecting boxes and throwing them at
his dog are together ABOVE you, jump    your opponents.  You have four
up (still holding the box) and you      platform to do this on.  When you have
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
reached the last two (e.g. the guard    When he's walking away from you,
and his dog) climb down three ladders   follow him, pick up a box and throw it
and drop down to the girder.  Jump off  at him.  Oh, beneath you to the right
this girder by holding down on the      of the screen there is a bonus life,
joystick and climb down the ladder.     it looks like Jake's face.  Anyway,
Walk left picking up the records and    climb up the ladder, duck down and
climb up the ladder.  Jump up side to   crawl to the left of the platform.
side until you reach the top platform.  When the cop is not shooting at you,
Collecting the records go down the      jump onto the lift and head up.  When
steps left to right until you see two   the lift has reached it's highest
boxes in the bottom left corner of the  point jump off to the right.  All you
screen.  Pick up a box and climb down   have to do now to finish the level is
the ladder on the right.  Walk right    reach one of those flags you see above
and throw it at the woman hiding        you.
behind the pillar. Head right, jump     
onto the lift.                          
                                                  LEVEL 6. THE GIG.
Exit to the right, pick up a box,       
climb up the ladder and throw the box   Head right and pick up a box.  Throw
at the worker.  Head right and jump     it at the security guard and head
onto the lift.  Now climb up onto the   right again.  Jump up to pick up the
platform where you see the bloke.       box, drop down and throw it at the
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
next security guard.  Head right to     Keep heading left, picking up boxes as
the lift, pick up a box, and head down  you go and throwing them at the cops.
in the lift.  Jump through the gap,     When you come to the far left, climb
and when you drop down to the ground    through the window, down two ladders,
thow the box at the guard.  Head        through the window, then head left
right, go down steps and up the other   until you come into the spotlight.
side, across the platform,down the      
steps and jump onto the platform to     
your right.  Now, drop down to the      YOU HAVE COMPLETED THE BLUES BROTHERS.
platform beneath you and you should     
now be able to see the heads of two of   Congratulations from Dr.Butcher M.D.
the guards beneath you.  When it is     
safe, jump to the far right and pick    End.
up a box.  Throw it at the guard on     
the left, and go back to pick up the    
other one.                              
                                        
Now, head left,when you see the other   
guard throw the box at him and head up  
the steps.  Pick up the box you see on  
the left and head left.  Climb up into  
the lift, and exit on the other side.   
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This previously appeared in LSD`s Grapevine magazine issue 10, used with 
permission!

end.
