
                                TURRICAN

PROLOGUE
A story of times long gone by, tells us of the three-headed Morgul, who lives
a secluded life in his kingdom. This Morgul is the cause of all the fears
and nightmares of mankind. It is furthermore said, that in ancient times he
was banished to an unknown dimension by the hero Devolon. Fear and
sleepless nights disappeared out of peoples lives.

For some time now people have again been tormented by nightmares and suffer
from a series state of dread and fear. Hardly anybody dares to set a foot
on the streets at night and a dreadful fear that Morgul has returned to is
kingdom is alive in the peoples minds again. As the only man on earth whos
courage has not yet deserted him, you are sent off, once again to free
human kind of its burden of fear. You have been armed with the latest
weapons and techinical equipment for this mission. Find Morgul in his
kingdom, and destroy him for once and for all.

THE GAME
In Turrican you will guide your hero through five different worlds, in
which you will be confronted by various perils. Three of these worlds
extend over three levels, the remaining two worlds over two levels. Ever
changing enemies, will constantly try to destroy you. You will have to use
your weapons skillfully in order to survive the varied levels. To aid you
in your battle you may gather up further weapons and other extras on your
way e.g forcesheilds and extra lives.

Examine ever level closly you will find new surprises and useful items
everywhere.

HOW TO WORK THE GAME

GENERAL INFORMATION
The game is played with joystick and keys. You may also use a joystick
with two independant firebuttons. This is explained below.

MOVING

JOYSTICK UP
Player jumps. If he is the gyroscope, he will transform back to normal
again.

JOYSTICK DOWN
Player ducks away e.g from enemies.

JOYSTICK DOWN AND PRESS SPACE
The player will transform into a gyroscope. While in this state the player
is invincible and will destroy enemies on touch. The gyroscope spins
automatically, and can only be directed to move left or right with the
joystick. This shape also allows you to pass through narrow corridors. The
player may transform into a gyroscope 3 times in each life.

JOYSTICK LEFT/RIGHT
Moves player left or right.

FIRE

PRESSING FIREBUTTON BRIEFLY
Player fires. If you have already collected the multiple shot or the laser,
the according weapon will be used. The multiple shot can be extended in
up to two degrees by collecting the right symbols. In the first degree
(basic equipment) the player fires 9 horizontal shots. In the second degree
3 salvos are fired simultaneously: 3 shots in a 30 degree angle upwards, 3
shots horizontally, and 3 shots in a 30 degree angle downwards. The third
degree resembles the second, except that the angle changes to 45 degrees.
The laser fires horizontally, and can be extended by gathering up the
corresponding symbols. Its length extends from an eighth to half of the
width of the screen. The laser has a high penetration rate, making it very
effective when fighting against several enemies simultaneously.

ACTIVATE A MINE

JOYSTICK DOWN WHILE HOLDING FIRE
The player activates a mine. The mine is placed on the ground and explodes
shortly afterwards. Various enemies walking the ground can be dealt with in
this manner.

ACTIVATE A FLASH

HOLDING FIRE
The player can activate a flash of lightning and may direct it (as long as
FIRE is held), by moving the joystick right and left to rotate clockwise
and anti-clockwise. The lightning can take on diffrent lengths. At the
beginning of the game it stretches over half the width of the screen. By
gathering up extras it can be made to stretch over the full width of the
screen.

ACTIVATE AN ENERGY LINE

SPACE
Activates two energy lines, moving right and left at the full height of the
screen. All enemies in range will be destroyed. Though should an obstacle
bar the way the line will be stopped.

THROW A GRENADE

AMIGA - ALT - F7
The player throws a grenade. Hitting an obstacle or an eye-level-monster
has the effect of a smartbomb, killing every enemy on the screen. Against
other enemies it works like a shot with high penetration.

Sound on/off    S
Pause Game      CTRL (press fire to continue)

EXTRAS
During the mission the player will find different symbols with useful
functions. Heres a listing:

        /               activates multiple shot, if already
        -               active it will be extended.
        \

        -               activates laser, if already active will be
                        extended.

        /               extends lightning.
        /

        <>              activates force sheild, making the player
                        invincible duration.

Yellow  'P'             recharges vitality
White   'G'             the player gains a grenade
White   'M'             the player gains a mine
White   'L'             the player gains an energy line
Grey    '1 UP'          the player gains a life

Diamonds                once the player has gathered up 300 diamonds, he
                        recieves another 'CONTINUE'.

LIVES
The player has three lives at the start of the game. He can lose them in
three ways:

1.  Time, indicated on the display runs out. The screen display will
announce 'TIME OUT'.
2.  The player has lost all his vitality. A loss of vitality occurs each
time the player touches an enemy or is hit by enemy fire.
3.  The player falls into an abyss.

If you lose a life the number of gyroscopes, mines, energy lines, and
grenades will be reset to three. Lightning, multiple shots, and laser will
be reduced if not already at minimum strength.

THE DISPLAY
The player can gain the following infomation from the display (from left to
right)

- Number of lives.
- Number of gyroscopes (above lives indicator)
- Number of 'CONTINUES'
- Iime
- Number of diamonds
- Number of grenades
- Number of mines
- Number of energy lines
- Score
- Vitality (above score)
