 C A S T L E   M A S T E R   I I :   T H E   C R Y P T
                           (Domark/Incentive)

          (Special Edition distributed by The Home Computer Club)


LOCATIONS OF KEYS

          KEY                     LOCATION

      (1) Crypt Key               In chest in Crypt
      (2) Belenus Key             On cupboard in last Treasure Room
      (3) Yang Key                In Secellus
      (4) Level 3 Key             By 3rd floor ledge over pothole
      (5) Level 4 Key             Inside lift
      (6) Ground Floor Key        On wall in lift shaft
      (7) Trapeze Key             Under steps on Level 3
      (8) Level 2 Key             Inside rock in lift shaft
      (9) Treasure Chest Key      In Rat Trap room
     (10) Yin Key                 Inside Treasure Chest


GENERAL TIPS

It  is very important to keep your strength up in this game. You must
be as efficient  as  possible in your actions, as there is very
little spare food lying  about. You don´t have to kill all the
spirits to escape. There is no way  out if you fall to the bottom of
the ravine. As a guide, you will find listed the number of spirits
you should have killed, the number of keys you should  have  and
your ideal strength rating at the end of each section of the
solution which follows. This solution assumes, unless otherwise
stated, that  you  eat all food as you find it, pick up all
treasure and kill every spirit  you see. Always crawl on ledges,
etc. You can move more accurately.  Look down at your feet when
walking near to the limit of a ledge, etc.


                               WALKTHROUGH



GETTING STARTED

Get  the  Key  from the Chest, leave the room and go to the Mouse
Trap. Get the  Food  and quickly shoot both the Spirits. Go to the
Last Treasure Room and  push  the Block through the wall. Go to
Tantalus, climb the blocks and get the Food. Push both Blocks
through the wall and then return to the Last Treasure  Room.  Climb
the blocks and get the Key to Belenus. Go to the Pot Hole and open
the Stone Door (your strength must be at least ´Mighty´ to do this).
Climb up the steps to the higher levels and eat two wedges of food.
If  your  strength  is not now at the maximum level, start again!
Go to the Lift  Shaft and push the boulder into the corner (you
need maximum strength to do this). Now clear the level of all
Spirits. Finally, head up the steps to Level 3, and get the
Trapeze Key from under the steps on that level.

                [STRENGTH = MIGHTY; SPIRITS = 4; KEYS = 3]


GETTING THE LIFT TO WORK

Go to Level 5 and enter the doorway. Open the low door in the Lift
Entrance Hall and then shoot the Chair Spirit. Crawl into the
tunnel, kill the Mouse Spirit  then  return for the food in the
hall. Crawl along the ledge in the ravine  to  the  point  marked
with * (below following this paragraph), and crawl off the ledge
in the direction of the arrow. You will land on another ledge  on
Level 6. Enter the Lurking Cheese room and immediately shoot the
Cheese Spirit. Go to the Lift Entrance 6 and kill the Chair Spirit.
Eat the food  and  shoot the lock off the padlocked door. Enter the
lift, smash the glass and get the Level 4 Key. The lift is now
working.

                [STRENGTH = MIGHTY; SPIRITS = 8; KEYS = 4]

 ------------------------|
         TUNNEL          |------------|
 ------------------------|    Ledge   |
                         |------|     | Ravine
                                |     |
                                |     |-----------|--------------
                                |    Ledge     *  |  Tube        |
                                |--------------|--|              |
                                     Ravine    |  |              |
                                               |
                                               \/
                                              Fall


USING THE LIFT

Using  the  lift,  work  your way to Level 3. On each level, clear
the Lift Entrance Hall and adjoining rooms of all spirits. To kill
the spirit in the Tube  Room  on  Level  5,  you need to drop
through a gap at one end of the raised floor area, select ´CRAWL´
and then shoot the Cheese Spirit.

                [STRENGTH = STRONG; SPIRITS = 14; KEYS = 4]


THE KEYS IN THE LIFT SHAFT AND POT HOLE

You now have to get keys from the Lift Shaft and from the Third
Floor ledge above  the  Pot Hole. Go to the Switch Room on Level 3.
Press the switch to make the doorway to the ledge appear and go
through before it closes again. Crawl  off  the  ledge  to left (as
you enter the ledge) to land on another ledge  on  Level  3 above
the Pot Hole. Get the key to Level 3 off the wall and  go  through
the doorway. Go to the door in the stair-well on Level 3.  Make
your way to the Map Room. Shoot the lock off the door on the far wall
and  then  open  it.  Shoot  the  switch  on  the Model Castle to
lower the drawbridge.  Step  onto the drawbridge and close it. You
will be catapulted through  the door on the far wall. Cross the
ravine and return to the lift.  Descend  to  Level  4.  Leave the
lift and go to the ledge over the ravine.  Push  the stone slab and
it forms a bridge to the opposite ledge. Make your way  across and
go back up to the Lift Entrance Hall on Level 3. Go through the lift
door and you will step out onto the lift roof. Turn RIGHT and walk
onto  the wooden ledge. Get the Key to the Ground Floor from the
wall. Make your  way  back  into  the Lift Entrance Hall. Walk all
the way back to the bottom  of the Lift Shaft (don´t use the lift).
The lift weight has crushed the boulder and revealed the Key to
Level 2.

                [STRENGTH = MIGHTY; SPIRITS = 19; KEYS = 7]


TACKLING LEVEL 2

Make  your  way up the steps to Level 2. Enter the Pillar Room and
move the Weight.  Go  down  the  tunnel  to Secellus and get the
Yang Key. Go to the Stalactite  Room  on  Level  3  and push BOTH
blocks UP. Return to Level 2, leaving the doors to the Stalactite
Room and Trapeze OPEN. Climb the blocks in  the Pillar Room to get
the Gem then go to the ledge over No Room. Crawl across  the  tops
of  the  two doors you left open on Level 3 into Ogmios. Enter the
Rat Trap Room and shoot the Rock Spirit on the ceiling. Walk over
to the Key and select ´CRAWL´. Get the Key and immediately crawl
backwards.  You now have the key to the Treasure Chest in the Final
Treasure Room. Make your  way  back to the Final Treasure Room, open
the chest and get the Food and the Yin Key.

               [STRENGTH = MIGHTY; SPIRITS = 25; KEYS = 10]


THE FINAL LEG

Make  your  way up the stairs to the top (Ground) level. If you have
enough energy,  stop and shoot the spirits in the Trapeze and the
Map Room (in the flag).  Open the door in the Lookout and SAVE YOUR
GAME! Select ´CRAWL´ and go  through the door. To kill Kerburus you
must shoot each head SIX TIMES - LEFT  first,  RIGHT  2nd and then
the CENTRE one. You will hear a "pinging" noise  if  you  are on
target. Once Kerburus is defeated, go to the door to the  Spirits
Abode  and  press  ALL the buttons. Provided you have ALL TEN keys,
the  door  will open. SAVE YOUR GAME again! The best way to kill all
the  spirits  is  to  enter  the room and kill one, leave the room
and SAVE GAME,  then repeat the process until you get them all.
When you have killed all the spirits, walk CAREFULLY out of the
window. Turn LEFT and then shoot the  switch  to  open the
drawbridge and go back inside. Finally, leave via the drawbridge
to complete the game!!

(Note:  Using  this  solution  you  should have killed up to 33
spirits and amassed a score of up to 7,820,000)
