                       M1 TANK PLATOON TIPS

Typed in by SIDEWINDER for LSD


Rule number one for any trainee platoon is to graduate from the firing
range with a good knowledge of defence, and, more importantly, using your
gun without the battle computer.  Practise moving your platoon round
obstacles and controlling individual team members.
When you think you've gained enough experiance in commanding a platoon you
can move onto the real thing.  Select the first of the single engagements
which is an all out assault.  Just go for the enemy's throat in an all out
attack.  Get used to having live ammunition raining down on your head.
World war three's broken out and you're battalion's in the front line.
Your first task will either be defending against the initial Red Army push,
or counter against a strong point.  Start the campaign against second line
troops.  When you feel up to it move onto First Line troops, these are more
inclined to retaliate and dig in fast.  Don't get out of your pram and go
for the veterans - these guys will kick your butts.  Elite guards aren't
worth fighting; you start off badly equipped against a highly skilled, well
outfitted enemy who'll roll straight over you.
Basically there's two types of mission; attack and defence.  Let's deal
with the attack first.
When S2 (battalion command) asks you nicely to take point red 2 on the map
you need to be careful.  Just because the bad guys are defending it doesn't
mean that's where they're going to keep there equipment.  Usually infantry
and personnel carriers are stationed at the actual location while the heavy
armour is distributed hull down on nearby hills.  Against anything but
second line troops you'll be committing suicide by attacking a defended
hill straight on.
Try to flank the enemy.  Take the furthest route around the main target;
set the formation of the platoon for echelon, pointing inwards to the
battle field.  Eventually you should start getting behind the enemy
positions.  This is the tank equivalent of catching your enemy's broadside,
their armour is weaker on the side and that way they present a larger
target.
If you have support team use them to run round the other side of the enemy
fortifications.  Don't rely on artillery to solve your problems; the best
result you can expect against a tank is to knock out it's tracks, possibly
its weapons if you're really lucky.  However, strikes can be devastating
when aimed at infantry then vehicles.  Remember, if you attack infantry
with artillery they will seek cover inside their carriers; so it's best to
go for their vehicles first.
Defending is a lot harder than it sounds.  For a start you shouldn't keep
your tanks together.  If possible station your tanks on adjacent hills and
catch the bad guys in the cross fire.  A Russian assault is nearly always
lead by the heavy armour, with BMP and BTR's following up behind.  Save any
artillery strikes for when the enemy enters Blue 1.  Remember to position
your tanks hull down; this involves parking up just behind the crest of a
hill so only your gun and a small portion of your tanks tough, front armour
is visible.
If things become really rough, try counter attacking.  It sounds far
fetched countering a full scale assault with four tanks, but it can be
done.  Leave two tanks overlooking the battle field while the remaining two
come round the side, and drive parallel to the enemy assault, again
attacking the flank.  Only use this tactic if you think you're going to be
overrun, as it takes skilled shots from the flanking tank gunners to make a
real difference.
If you have air support call it in immediately.  This will help pin point
enemy positions as well as keep them occupied.
Most important of all think ahead.  Move hill by hill and try to get round
a well organised enemy rather than tackle them head on.  Never
underestimate the importance of your support teams.  They're not tank
fodder, they do make a difference to the outcome.

End.
