                             JAMES POND HINTS

Typed by SIDEWINDER of LSD.


HIDDEN BONUS POINT BLOCKS
Some missions contain invisible blocks hovering above the surface of the
water.  James can reveal them by head-butting them.  Once found, a red brick
will appear and a bonus item will pop out of the top and fall to the bottom
of the sea.  The brick can then be used as a normal platform.

SPECIAL SCORES
At various points through the game there are special items, some of which are
hidden, but they can dramatically bump up your score.

SUPER BONUS ITEMS
These are pieces of treasure which give hefty bonuses:
THE GOLDEN COIN         -       5,000 points.
THE GOLDEN TROPHY   -   10,000 points.
THE GOLDEN CHEST        -   20,000 points.

HIDDEN BONUS LIFE BLOCKS
These will act much the same as Hidden Score Blocks, with the exception that
they reveal a heart.  This gives you an extra life when they are collected.

HIDDEN SUPER MEGA BONUSES
These are totally invisible and usually well hidden.  If James picks one up
then he recieves a 500,000 point bonus.

HIDDEN COMPLETED MISSION WARPS
Once you have completed a mission, invisible secret warps become activated.
Moving onto one of these secret warps will cause James to be transported to
an advanced mission.  However, these missions can't be completed unless James
has certain special gadgetry.  To get to see the mermaids, James must find
the warp to Mission 11.  This can be found by jumping up and down on the
block at the same level as the sea.  But try to look out for Mad Scientists!

EXTRA LIVES
Extra Lives are gained every 100,000 points until you reach 500,000.  From
this point they are awarded every half-a-million until 30,500,000.

SECRET ROOMS
There are sometimes holes in the seabed, which when entered give access to
secret rooms.  There are three types of these:

BAD ROOMS - Contain monsters and a bonus letter (see Collecting Letters).

GOOD ROOMS - These contain a whole host of bonus items along with starfish
for extra energy.  Bonus rooms in later levels may contain super-bonus items
such as Whisky bottles - but James will have to get really rather drunk
before he can get the bonus.

NEUTRAL ROOMS - Contain treasure chests which contain good and bad items.

COLLECTING LETTERS
All the bad rooms have a letter at their centre.  James recieves 50 points
for collecting each one of them, but if he manages to collect them all to
spell JAMES POND and returns home to find the letters glowing, then he
recieves a colossal 10,000,000 points.  This can be done up to three times
for a massive 30,000,000!

MUSHROOM PORTALS
Mushrooms act as teleports, transporting you to another place in the section.
All James has to do to use a portal is to swim onto it, except for those out
of the water.  To use these, he must push up while hopping on one.
There are two types of mushrooms - those which transport James to another
mushroom and those which transport to the location where a mission object was
successfully dropped.

WALLS
There are special sections of walls with different effect:

SWITCHED WALLS - Most switched walls have a twin.  When one wall is switched
off, another one will appear somewhere in the section.

ALTERNATING WALLS - These are similar to switched walls, except they toggle
at regular-timed intervals.

DISAPPEARING WALLS - These are only found above water and vanish when James
jumps on them.  Watch out for anything nasty under platforms - this usually
signifies a trap!

APPEARING WALLS - These walls too are only found above water and appear when
they are walked upon.

UNDERWATER CREATURES
Not all the creatures James comes across are deadly - some may be helpful.
Here is a guide to some of the most common creatures in JAMES POND.

OYSTERS - When touched, oysters will follow James around the section killing
up to eight enemies.

EXTRA ENERGY GRUBS - These bounce up and down.  More energy will be gained if
a grub is caught as it bounces upwards.

PELICANS - These can be found on Missions 2 and 5, crossing the pelican
crossing!  If James stays rather too close to the surface as they pass, they
will swoop down and try to grab him out of the water.

JELLYFISH - These are found on Missions 4, 6 and 10.  They can only be seen
with the special X-ray sunglasses.

PUFFA FISH - These appear when you are on Mission 5 and they try to run off
with the toxic waste to stop James from dropping them on land.

SQUID - These appear in Missions 3 and 11.  If James comes in contact with
them, everything will black out for a few seconds.

MAD SCIENTISTS - These teleport out of thin air to wherever you where a few
seconds ago, so keep on the move.  Luckily they only appear on Missions 11
and 12.

EXPLODING RUBBER DUCKS - There are four of these in Mission 6.  If James
touches them they explode and kill him.

SPECIAL HARDWARE

HELMET - Allows you to breathe above water for longer periods.

SHADES - These allow you to see the usually invisible jellyfish.

TOP HAT - Reduces the damage you take from enemies.

RAY GUN - Firstly, when underwater it saves you having to bubble-up enemies
and pop them because they pop instantly when hit.  Secondly, it allows you to
kill land-based animals.

EXTRA DYNAMITE - This can be obtained fron James' home pipe.  It is only for
Mission 3, where he can get extra bonus for planting it at the bottom of the
legs of the oil platform.

PASSWORDS
Right, for those impatient people who want to cheat, then try this:
Type in JUNKYARD and hit Return while playing the game.  You can now use the
following keys:

RETURN - Toggles the cheat on and off.  This gives you a protective floating
fairy.

D - Makes the locks disappear off the next mission pipes.

End.
