           Kings Quest III - "To Heir is Human"

Typed in by BYTTEN & THE PERPETRATOR. Edited by PARASITE.


A long, long time ago, when magic was the only science  known  to
man,  there dwelt in the land of Llewdor a wizard named Manannan.
He was very learned in all matters of the heavens and earth.

Of great age, Mannannan presented a frail appearance,  as  though
his   skin   were  made  of  bleached  and  weathered  parchment.
Manannan's impression of fragility lasted only until  one  looked
into  his coal-black eyes, which burned with a strange fire. This
was, indeed, a powerful wizard.

Although he was powerful, and capable of conjuring up vast armies
of spirit servants to sweep his hearth,  prepare  his  meals  and
other  menial  tasks with which he would not soil his hands, this
solution to his everyday needs was not satisfactory to  him.  For
he  liked  his  solitude,  and  didn't want a lot of spirits (who
besides  all  else,  are  quite  inquisitive   and   mischievous)
cluttering  up  his house. Instead, he impressed a very young boy
to do his bidding, taking the lad when he was only a year old, so
he would have no memories to tug at him in the years to come.

Unfortunately for Manannan, boys grow up and become adventuresome
young men. As his slave grew in stature and in strength, Manannan
was irritated to find him poking around in  areas  of  the  house
where  he  didn't  belong. Or he would climb down the narrow path
leading  to  Manannan's  mountaintop  retreat  to   explore   the
surrounding  countryside.  Even  punishment  did not stop him for
long.

One day, when his slave was 18 years of age, the wizard found him
practicing magic spells. This was the last straw!

"YOU!" Manannan screamed. "You have read my books of  spells  and
plundered  my  supplies  of  powders  and  potions. You have even
ventured into Llewdor again, against my  expressed  command,  for
nowhere else could you have gathered some of these ingredients!

"You  think  you  will  win  your freedom with these tricks?" the
wizard sneered. "You shall see your mistake! You have earned only
your own demise!"  And  with  that,  Manannan  raised  his  hands
menacingly.

Suddenly  the  earth  began  to shake. And his slave was no more.
Only a small pile of ashes remained where he had stood.

"Next time, I won't make the  same  mistake,"  Manannan  snarled.
"I'll never let any of my slaves reach manhood. I'll have no more
accidents."

And  so  the  years  passed.  Manannan went out and found another
small boy to be his slave. He  stole  him  from  a  country  some
distance  from  Llewdor,  to  direct suspicion away from himself.
Manannan was more  careful  with  this  child,  and  watched  him
closely.  The wizard punished the boy severely when he caught him
away from the house. And he made sure  the  boy  didn't  get  his
hands  on  even any ordinary items that might be transformed into
magic charms or potions. On the whole, Manannan didn't have  much
trouble  with  him,  but  still,  on the lad's 18th birthday, the
wizard zapped him outof existence.

"It's a nuisance, having to train a slave  all  over  again,"  he
mumbled  complainingly. "But it's better than having trouble like
the last time."

And so he went on, every 17 years kidnapping a small boy from his
loving parents, then slaying him on the 18th anniversary  of  his
birth.   (Occasionally  the cycle was shortened slightly, when he
unfortunately chose a precocious  child  that  learned  too  much
before his 18th year.)

And time went on...

TIPS FOR THE BEGINNING ADVENTURER
If  you  haven't  played  one  of Sierra's 3-D animated adventure
games before, here are a few suggestions to help you get started.

LOOK everywhere. When you go somewhere you haven't  been  before,
the  first  thing  to  do  is  look  around.  You  should  get  a
description of the general area. Often there is  a  clue  to  the
game  or  an indication that something in the scene bears further
investigation.

EXPLORE each area of the game very carefully. Search the wizard's
domain, both inside and out -- even (or perhaps especially) those
places he doesn't want you poking around in. Venture out  to  mix
and mingle with the inhabitants of the surrounding countryside of
Llewdor.

DRAW  A  MAP  that  includes each place you visit, objects found,
dangerous areas, any and every landmark you see  along  the  way.
Try  not  to  miss any area, or you may miss an important clue or
item necessary to the completion of your quest.  And don't  think
that  because you've been somewhere once, it will be the same the
next time. The population of Llewdor  (and  other  countries  you
might visit) can move around as well as you (some better).

In  addition  to  constructing  your own map, you may also find a
certain magic map hidden in the wizard's house. It's up to you to
unlock its special powers.

Keep your ears open - TALK to just about everyone you  meet,  but
use  discretion!   Some  characters will be friendly and helpful.
They will give you valuable information and advice.  Others  will
try  to  trick  you, so be ready to run and hide. If that doesn't
work, you may have to find some other way of outwitting them.

PICK UP anything that isn't nailed down. You'll come across  many
objects  that  have  a  use  somewhere  else  in  the  game. Your
inventory is listed on the "status" screen (accessed with the TAB
key).

USE the items you pick up to solve large and  small  problems  in
the  game.  Some  problems have obvious solutions. If you need to
dig a hole, use a shovel. Other problems require more imagination
to solve.

BE  CAREFUL.  The  way you must travel is long and dangerous.  Be
sure to remain alert at all times -- disaster may strike  in  the
most unlikely of places.

SAVE YOUR GAME often. That way, if misfortune should strike along
the way, you won't have to start over  from  the  beginning  (see
your reference card for instructions on saving your game).

DON'T  GET  DISCOURAGED.  If  you  come to an obstacle that seems
insurmountable, don't despair. Explore the game some  more,  then
come  back  later  and try again.  If you're stuck, you might try
backtracking to an earlier point in the game --  you  might  have
forgotten  to  do  something vital. Or you can buy a King's Quest
III hint book using the enclosed order form.

Be brave, be resourceful, be true.

The following pages contain the only legible excerpts  from  "The
Sorcery  of  Old" (Manannan's book of magic). All other spells in
the volume are so faded that they are  indecipherable  to  mortal
eyes.

To  perform any of these spells, open "The Sorcery of Old" to the
appropriate  page  and  follow  the  directions  precisely.   Any
deviation   from  the  correct  procedure,  including  the  EXACT
recitation of the empowering verse, can cause fatal (if sometimes
humorous) results.

Note: parentheses indicate descriptive text, not instructions you
need to type into the computer.

UNDERSTANDING THE LANGUAGE OF CREATURES  (PAGE II)

INGREDIENTS
one small feather from a bird
one tuft of fur from any animal
one dried reptile skin
one rounded spoonful of powdered fish bone
one thimbleful of dew
one magic wand

DIRECTIONS
I.    Put the small feather in a bowl
II.   Put the fur in the bowl
III.  Put the reptile skin in the bowl
IV.   Add a spoonful of powdered fish bone
V.    Put a thimbleful of dew in the bowl
VI.   Mix with hands  (mixture will now be doughy)
VII.  Separate mixture into two pieces
VIII. Put dough pieces into your ears
IX.   (Recite this verse)
Feather of fowl and bone of fish,
Molded together in this dish,
Give me wisdom to understand
Creatures of air, sea and land
X.    Wave the magic wand

You will now be able to understand the speech of  animals,  birds
and  fish.  You  will not, however, be able to speak to them. The
spell will last as long as the dough is in your ears.

FLYING LIKE AN EAGLE OR A FLY  (PAGE IV)

INGREDIENTS
one tail feather from any eagle (to become an eagle)
one pair of fly wings (to become a fly)
one pinch of saffron
rose petal essence
one magic wand

DIRECTIONS
I.   Put a pinch of saffron in essence
II.  (Recite this verse)
Oh winged spirits, set me free
Of earthly bindings, just like thee
In this essence, behold the might
To grant the precious gift of flight
III. Wave the magic wand.

You  now  have  a  potion  which  will  allow  you  to  cast  the
transformation spell. To cast the spell any time later:

Dip  the  eagle  feather in the essence (if you want to become an
eagle).
or
Dip the fly wings in the essence (if you want to become a fly).

You will turn into an eagle or a fly. If  you  do  not  transform
back  into  yourself, the spell will wear off after some time has
passed. You can use this  spell  until  your  rose  petal/saffron
potion is gone.

To  return  to  your  own form before the spell wears off, recite
this verse:

Eagle begone!
Myself, return!

or

Fly, begone!
Myself, return!

TELEPORTATION AT RANDOM  (PAGE VII)

INGREDIENTS
one spoonful of salt grains
one sprig of dried mistletoe
one smooth rounded stone of unusual color
one magic wand

DIRECTIONS
I.   Grind a spoon of salt in a mortar (with a pestle)
II.  Grind the mistletoe in the mortar
III. Rub the stone in the mixture
IV.  Kiss the stone
V.   (Recite this verse)
With this kiss, I thee impart,
Power most dear to my heart
Take me now from this place hither,
To another place far thither
VI.  Wave the magic wand

You now own a charm which will  allow  you  to  cast  the  random
teleportation  spell.  To  cast the spell, rub the stone. It will
instantly wisk you away from where you are. Remain alert, however
-- even though you can use the spell to  run  away  from  danger,
nothing  guarantees that you will not arrive in a more precarious
situation than the one you left. The power of the  charm  remains
for as long as you retain the stone.

CAUSING A DEEP SLEEP  (PAGE XIV)

INGREDIENTS
three dried acorns
one cup nightshade juice
one magic wand
one empty pouch

DIRECTIONS
I.    Grind the acorns in a mortar (with a pestle)
II.   Put the acorn powder in a bowl
III.  Put the nightshade juice in the bowl
IV.   Stir the mixture with a spoon
V.    Light a charcoal brazier
VI.   Heat the mixture on the brazier (boil the mixture until the
nightshade juice is almost gone, then remove from heat)
VII.  Spread the mixture on a table (wait until dry)
VIII. (Recite this verse)
Acorn powder ground so fine
Nightshade juice like bitter wine
Silently in darkness you creep
To bring a soporific sleep
IX.   Wave the magic wand
X.    Put the sleep powder in the pouch (for safekeeping)

You have now mixed a  powder  for  casting  a  sleep  spell  over
whoever  is  nearby.  To cast the spell, pour the sleep powder on
the ground (or floor) in a dank, dark place. Then recite:

Slumber, henceforth!

TRANSFORMING ANOTHER INTO A CAT  (PAGE XXV)

INGREDIENTS
one-half cup mandrake root powder
one small ball of cat hair
two spoonfuls of fish oil
one magic wand

DIRECTIONS
I.    Put mandrake root powder in a bowl
II.   Put the cat hair in the bowl
III.  Put two spoons of fish oil in bowl
IV.   Stir the mixture with a spoon (dough will be oily)
V.    Put the dough on the table
VI.   Pat the dough into a cookie (let harden on table)
VII.  (Recite this verse)
Mandrake root and hair of cat
Mix oil of fish and give a pat
A feline from the one who eats
This appetizing magic treat
VIII. Wave the magic wand

You have just created a cookie that, when eaten,  will  turn  the
victim into a cat. Forever!

BREWING A STORM  (PAGE LXXXIV)

INGREDIENTS
one cup of ocean water
one spoonful of mud
one pinch of toadstool powder
one magic wand
one empty jar

DIRECTIONS
I.    Put a cup of ocean water in bowl
II.   Light a charcoal brazier
III.  Heat  the  bowl  on  the  brazier  (heat slowly, but not to
boiling, then remove from heat).
IV.   Put a spoon of mud in the bowl
V.    Add a pinch of toadstool powder
VI.   Blow into the hot brew
VII.  (Recite this verse)
Elements from the earth and sea,
Combine to set the heavens free.
When I stir this magic brew,
Great god Thor, I call on you.
VIII. Wave the magic wand
IX.   Pour the storm brew into the jar (to store)

You have mixed a potion that you can use  to  brew  a  storm.  To
activate  the  spell,  stir  the  storm brew with your finger and
recite:

Brew of storms,
Churn it up!

Outdoors, a rainstorm complete with thunder  and  lightning  will
occur.  It  will  last  for  some  time, but will eventually rain
itself out. If you wish it to subside earlier, recite:

Brew of storms,
Clear it up!

BECOMING INVISIBLE  (PAGE CLXIX)

INGREDIENTS
one pat of lard
one cactus
one spoonful of cactus juice
two drops of toad spittle
one magic wand

DIRECTIONS
I.    Cut the cactus with a knife
II.   Squeeze the cactus juice on spoon
III.  Put the cactus juice in a bowl
IV.   Put the lard in the bowl
V.    Add two drops of toad spittle
VI.   Stir the mixture with a spoon
VII.  (Recite this verse)
Cactus plant and horny toad
I now start down a dangerous road
Combine with fire and mist to make
Me disappear without a trace
VIII. Wave magic wand
IX.   Put ointment in the empty lard jar

You now have a  magic  ointment  that  will  allow  you  to  turn
invisible  (but  beware, the ointment only works in a place where
there is both fire and mist).  To cast  the  invisibility  spell,
rub  the ointment on your body. You will be invisible for a short
while. You have enough for one application.
