RISE OF THE DRAGON
from Dynamix

Released by S K I D  R O W in 1991 !

Control Documentation

GETTING STARTED

The essence of Dragon is the simple action of point-and-click.  The small 
cursor on the screen represents you in the world of Blade Hunter.  By 
moving the cursor around Blade's world and "clicking," you interact with 
his environment.  There are 3 basic point-and-click actions:

	1. LOOK: Single click the right mouse button while the
                 cursor is placed over the object you want to look
                 at.  This will bring up a text box containing
                 information on the object you're looking at.

	2. OPERATE: Single click the left mouse button while the
                    cursor is placed over the object you want to
                    activate or select.

	3. MOVE: Click and HOLD the left mouse button while the
                 cursor is placed over the object you want to pick
                 up and move.

	NOTE: Not all objects can be picked up so don't cramp your
              fingers trying to pick up Blade's bed or toilet.

There are 3 more clicks before we are ready to begin:

	4. MAIN INVENTORY: Right click while the cursor is placed
                           on the Inventory Icon.  Windows showing
                           Blade's status and the current inventory
                           objects he is holding will be displayed.

	5. QUICK INVENTORY: Left click while the cursor is placed
                            on the Inventory Icon.  Only your
                            inventory window will be displayed.

	6. USING OBJECTS: To use objects that Blade is carrying,
                          simply click an hold the right mouse
                          button.  The on-screen cursor will change
                          to indicate that the specific object that
                          Blade is holding has been selected for
                          use.  With the object selected for use,
                          it can be operated in the same way as
                          other objects in the game.

	NOTE: Since everyone "clicks" slightly differently from the
              next person, the preset "click" controls may not seem
              perfect for everyone.  You can adjust the preset
              controls to suit your own personal speed and feel by
              using the CALIBRATE MENU.

THE SMART CURSOR

In addition to pointing in different directions, the cursor will, at times, 
completely change shape to inform you about items, places or people you 
should pay attention to.

When the cursor changes to an exit sign, it's telling you that by left 
clicking on this spot you can enter another room.

When the cursor changes to a pointed exit it's differentiating between two 
closely placed, but different, exits.  You are likely to see this on 
elevators, where there are both "up" and "down" buttons.

If the cursor changes to a conversation bubble, you can left click to 
engage in a conversation with the person the cursor is pointing at.

If the cursor changes to a magnifying glass, it's your cue that you can 
left click to "zoom in" and get a closer look at what the cursor is 
pointing at.

In addition to the normal gameplay cursor icons, you will soon become 
familar with DGDS's signal that it's thinking - the WAIT icon.  The 
cursor will change to the Wait Icon whenever the game needs to access 
information from disk or is preparing a surprise.  The length the Wait 
Icon remains on-screen is heavily dependent upon whether you are playing 
the game from floppy disk or hard disk.  it is highly recommended that 
you play from a hard disk drive.

INVENTORY SCREENS

The inventory allows you to interact with Blade Hunter.  Inventory is 
where you direct his use of these objects.  The Inventory consists of 3 
parts: the Main Inventory Window, the Quick Inventory Window and the 
Inventory Icon, which gives you access to the Inventory.

Inventory Icon

Located on the bottom right corner of all game play windows, the Inventory 
Icon represents the character of Blade Hunter.  It's use is straight 
forward and very simple.

- To give Blade Hunter objects, simply move objects on top of the 
  Inventory Icon and drop them.  They will automatically be placed into 
  Blade's inventory.

- To access the Main Inventory Window, right click on the Inventory Icon.

- To access the Quick Inventory Window, left click on the Inventory Icon.

Looking at Inventory Objects

Using the LOOK command (right click) on objects held in inventory will 
give a close-up picture and description of the object you are looking at.

MAIN INVENTORY WINDOW

Accessed by right clicking on the Inventory Icon, the Main Inventory 
Window gives you control over all items that have placed into Blade's 
inventory.  You can drop the items from inventory or give them to Blade 
to use.

QUICK INVENTORY WINDOW

Accessed by left clicking on the Inventory Icon, the Quick Inventory 
Window shows you only the object inventory items on Blade from this menu, 
you can quickly move objects from inventory.

A Note on Inventory Menus:

The Quick Inventory is just what the name implies: it pulls up the Quick 
Inventory much faster than the Main Inventory.  When you don't need to 
interact with Blade's character and only need to access the items in 
inventory, left click on the Inventory Icon to use the Quick Inventory.  
You'll spend a lot less time waiting....  Also, objects can be moved 
directly out of the Quick Inventory.  Just left click and hold the object 
and move it out of the inventory window.  this can only be done from the 
Quick Inventory!  It's a big time saver during conversations when you 
need to exchange items with another character.

OBJECT USE

Using objects in Blade Hunter's world is easy.  Simply move objects to 
where you want them to be used or perform an action on objects that need 
something to be done to them.

- If you want to pick something up off the ground and put it into your 
  inventory, you simply move the object onto the Inventory Icon and drop it.

- If you want to turn on a VidPhone, you simply locate the power switch 
  using the LOOK command (right click) and then operate it (left click) to 
  turn it off and on.

- If you want to open a lock using keys in your inventory, move the keys 
  from inventory directly to the lock and drop them.  The lock will open 
  (assuming you've got the right keys!).

TIME

In Blade Hunter's world, time is an ever-present companion.  People go to 
work and go home, buildings open and close and Blade needs to sleep when 
he's been up too long.

When Blade has been up past his bedtime, a thought box will pop up.  It 
means that Blade is getting sleepy and it's time to head home for some 
shut-eye.  If you ignore this warning, Blade could end up falling asleep 
in a place much less cozy (and less safe) than his cramped bedroom.

DATE AND TIME INDICATORS/CONTROLS

Located inside each of the inventory windows are the Date and Time 
Indicators.  Along with the current date and time are controls for 
advancing game time.  these controls are provided because you may come to 
a point in your adventure when you need to wait until a specific time.  
In this case, you will have two options:

	1. Just hang...wait around twiddling your cursor.
	2. Advance time using the Time Controls.

Each click on the >> key will advance time by 1 hour.

Each click on the > key will advance time by 1 minute.

ARCADE SEQUENCES

There are 2 side-scrolling arcade sequences in Rise of the Dragon.  In 
the arcades, you control Blade Hunter from a side view as he makes his 
way past physical hazards and various bad guys.  The arcades are 
interwoven with the evolving story.  If they are completed successfully, 
normal game play will resume.

NOTE: All functions under the VCR Menu are operational during arcades
except SAVE and RESTORE.

ARCADE SCREEN

Health Status Bar

Indicates Blade's current status.  Each hit from enemy fire or from
hazards drains energy from the bar.  If the Health Status Bar is depleted, 
Blade dies.

Mouse Controls

The Mouse Control arrows direct Blade's actions when using a mouse.

Weapon Screen

Displays the active weapon.  Control of this function is automatic - the 
computer selects the best weapon from Blade's Inventory.

Weapon Control

Blade enters the arcade sequences with whatever weapons he is carrying in 
the inventory.  if he is carrying more than one weapon, the best weapon 
for a particular part of the arcade is automatically selected.

Weapons can be used in more than one way.  When Blade encounters "the Boss" 
at the end of the arcade sequence he will be able to engage in hand-to-hand 
combat when close enough.  blade will automatically use his weapon as a 
club in hand-to-hand combat, beating "the Boss" with a variety of moves.  
The moves selected for use in hand-to-hand combat are automatically 
selected by the computer each time the action button or key is pressed.

Hazards

Each arcade sequence includes more than just bad guys out to end Blade's 
existence.  There are numerous physical hazards that must also be 
avoidable or overcome.  Some are bothersome, some will inflict minor 
injury and some are downright deadly.

Difficulty Levels

The difficulty level of the arcade sequences can be changed at any time.  
If you're not a fan of arcade shoot'em ups, call up the VCR Menu (press 
ESC) and then select the CONTROLS sub-menu.  Find the slider marked 
Difficulty and move it all the way to the left, toward EASY.

MEANWHILE & STORY SEQUENCES

Rise of the Dragon operates in a living environment where events are
happening all the time, whether you're present or not.  When an event of 
interest occurs somewhere else in Blade's world, a Meanwhile Screen will 
pop up, introducing a sequence that shows what's occurring.

Meanwhile sequences are intended to convey information that heightens the 
cinematic experience of the story.  It's important to note that these 
sequences are not interactive, you can't affect them, and that the 
information given in the sequences isn't known to yourgame alter-ego, 
Blade Hunter.  The fact that Blade isn't knowledgeable of the events 
shown in meanwhile sequences is important to remember.  It means that 
Blade's questions and responses to other characters will only deal with 
elements that Blade is aware of.

GAME PLAY MENUS

VCR Menu

Pressing the ESC key of left clicking on the top of any game play screen 
will bring up the VCR Menu.  This is the main menu from which all others 
are accessed.  the following is a breakdown of the 5 menus, and their sub-
menus, available from the VCR Menu.

- Play: Located in each of the sub-menus.  Pressing PLAY will exit the 
        current menu and immediately return you to game play.

- Controls:
		- Difficulty - allows you to adjust difficulty levels
                  in arcade sequences.
		- Text Speed - adjusts the duration of Dialogue Box
                  display.
		- Detail Level - Adjusts the amount of animation.
		- VCR - returns you to the VCR Menu.

- Options:
		- Joystick On/Off
		- Mouse On/Off
		- Sounds On/Off
		- Music On/Off

- Calibrate:
		- Button Threshold - allows fine tuning of what the
                  game considers a button "click."
		- Joystick - brings up joystick calibration screen, 
                  with instructions on "centering" your joystick for 
                  the game.
		- Mouse - See Sub Menu below.
		
Mouse Sub Menu:
		- Mouse Speed - controls how fast the cursor moves
                  mouse movement.
		- Calibrate - returns to the calibrate menu.
		
Files:
		- Save - See sub menu below
		- Restore - See below
		- Restart - quits the current adventure and restarts
                  the game from the beginning.
		
Save Sub Menu:
		- Brings up the Save menu.  Up to 20 games can be
                  saved in one directory.  The Save feature is NOT
                  operational during Meanwhile Story sequences and
                  Arcades.

Restore Sub Menu:
		- Brings up the Restore menu.  Restoring a previously
                  saved game will erase the current game.  The Restore
                  feature is NOT operational during Meanwhile Story
                  sequences and Arcades.

Quit:
		- Self-explanatory.
