                       Cadaver-The Payoff Game Guide
                                 Level one

SECRET PASSAGE:
Take the diary and insert it into the slot on the wall. This unlocks the
door. ->W.

GUESTS ENTRANCE:
Pick you diary up again (It's on top of the small wooden table). Search the
corpse (Pile of bones) and get the diary that is revealed. ->E and insert
this diary in the slot. ->W->W.

GUESTS PASSAGE:
->N though the 1st door.

GUEST ROOM 3:
Move the pillow on the bed to reveal a dagger, get it. Open the cabinet and
get the flask (Super Fast) and the holy symbol. ->S and ->N through the
second door.

GUEST ROOM 2:
Open the cabinet and get the key and cash. Look behind the barrel for a book
that explains some of the story.->S and hold the dagger ready for
action.->W.

GUESTS PASSAGE (2):
As soon as you enter, start shooting at the slime that is making it's way
towards you. Do not bother shooting the second slime, he is invincible!
Insert the key in the keyhole to unlock the north door. ->N.

GUEST ROOM 1:
Search the corpse and get the diary. Leave the chest for later, it is
trapped. Return to the secret passage and insert the diary you have just
picked up into the slot. (This has unlocked a door north of the Guests
Entrance. ->W->N.

MAGIC CHAMBER:
Get the orb from the altar (a teleport spell) and now you can play with the
levers! Pulling the middle lever down and casting the teleport spell will
transport you to the room you want to go to, and is the only one you need to
do. However, you can set only the third lever and cast the teleport spell to
take you to the MONEY PIT for bonus cash. However, you are then transported
to the CATCHER ROOM, where you have to catch 5 falling gems before they hit
the floor to escape. Anyway, just set the middle lever down and cast the
teleport spell for now.

KITCHEN:
Search the corpse in this room and get the diary. Also, get the chicken and
the two chicken legs. Open the cabinet and get the scroll (Dispel Trap) and
pull the lever to unlock the exit. ->N. (You are back in the guests
passage). Return to the secret passage and insert the new diary into the
slot . Go to the Magic Chamber.

MAGIC CHAMBER:
Open the chest to get the cash (Opened by inserting the diary in the slot).
Now go to the Guests room 1 and cast the Dispel Trap spell on the chest. Get
the dagger, the green casket and the orb (Turn Monster) and return to the
guests entrance. Insert the two daggers into the altar, search the altar and
recover the two daggers. Search the skull on the wall, get the key and open
the chest in this room. Get the holy symbol and the orb (Massacre)
->W->W.Pull the lever (avoiding the monster) and ->W.

REFECTORY:
Listen to the spiel by the undertaker, then give him the chicken. Take the
flask on the table (Stamina) and the red casket he has just given you. ->S.

BAR:
Now, jump on the bar so you are to the north of the barman. You are about to
be tested by a drinking challenge. Listen to the barman, and when he drops
the six tankards of ale, start drinking them in this order : The tankard on
the bar, the tankard in front of the barman, the tankard by the chair, the
tankard by the low stool and the two tankards by the east exit. Now, recover
you breath and pick up the cash bag and wait! Jump on the bar and get the
coins and the lodestone. Now, drop down and pick up the slime! ->E.

TAP ROOM:
Hold the turn monster spell. The idea in this room is to use the turn
monster spell to force the slime’s under the hammer, killing all three and
revealing a key for your exit. When you have done this, insert the key in
the keyhole, get the green casket, jump on the platform, pull the lever and
->E back to the kitchen. ->E.

CASK ROOM:
(Notice the key fall into the barrel). Pull the lever twice (Helps later),
get the green casket. Open the strong box and insert the casket you have
just picked up into the strong box (Search the strongbox if you want to know
why you do this). Insert your two holy symbols into your other two green
caskets and insert both of these into the strongbox. Open the strongbox and
get the scroll (Dispel Trap).->S.

EAST HALL:
Avoid the rotating flails and ->E.

A COLD ROOM: Now, drop the lodestone (Magnet) as near to the teleporter
stone as you can. This will attract the key to the teleporter stone and
transport the key to your side of the magic field. Get the key and open the
chest. Get the bomb and grey key. Insert the key into the keyhole to dispel
the magic field. Get the scroll (Unlock Chest) and the flask (Stamina). Open
the strongbox and get the scroll (Dispel Magic). Return to the cask room.
Insert the bomb into the barrel the key dropped into, and wait till it
explodes. Get the key, inserting it into the keyhole. ->E.

POTION STORE:
Open the chest and get the two black flasks (Unknown). Get the green flask
(Giant Jump) and the red flask (Immortal) and one of the dipsticks. Return
to the cold room. Touch the teleporter, drink the immortal potion and cast
the Dispel Magic spell quickly on the teleporter. Get the cash and key, open
the small red casket and get the flask (Stamina). ->W.

EAST HALL:
Hold the dipstick and throw it towards the flails so they get trapped
together in the middle of the room. Now, drink the Giant Jump and Super
Fast, jump over the flails, pull the lever and jump back.->W.

STRONG ROOM:
Run to the lever and pull it, stopping the darts (Note, this only works if
you pulled the lever twice in the Cask room). Get the small key, open the
chest in the south-west corner of the room and get the cash. Dispel trap on
the other chest and open it with the Unlock Chest spell. Dispel trap on the
strongbox revealed and open it. Finally, Dispel Trap on the two grey caskets
and open them, getting the orb (Activate) and scroll (Learn Potion).->E,
jump over the flails again and ->S.

DARKLAND ROOM:
Drop one of the black unknown potions and cast the learn potion spell on it.
If this potion is poison, leave it and drink the other black potion,
otherwise, it will be a strength potion, the one you should drink. After
drinking, push the board out of the way and pull the lever (Make sure you
don’t move the board too far so it blocks the door). Get the orb
(Reveal).->W.

HIDDEN ROOM:
Get the two chicken legs. Hold the Reveal spell, stand by the east door and
cast the spell. The idea now is to build your own staircase by standing on
the block you have just revealed and casting the spell again. You will have
to cast it 8 times before it is high enough to exit. ->W when you are able
to.

FIRE CHAMBER:
Drop your slime creature. He will go and get all the silver coins for you.
Pick up slime when he comes back to you. Cast the activate spell to send the
platform to the other side of the fireballs. Now, using the daggers or the
massacre spell, kill the slime with the chain attached to it to make the
barrel fall onto the platform. Cast the activate spell again. Hold the
activate spell, and, using the barrel as a shield, cast the spell and get to
the west of the room. ->W.

EKBERS ROOM:
Press the button 4 times, then press the revealed button once, and finally,
press the first button three more time. The door will unlock. ->W.

HUNGERS HALL:
Go to the North East corner of the room and drop a chicken leg. When the
slime comes towards it, jump over, hold a chicken leg and throw it as near
to the North West corner of the room. Then, throw a chicken leg to the South
West corner of the room, and drop one near the South east corner. The slime
will hopefully clear a path so you can get the key, put it in the keyhole
and ->N.

BAR PASSAGE:
Just -> E->E. Pull the lever and ->E.

LANDLORDS ROOM:
Pull the lever, and get the charm. Open the chest, get the cash and key.
->W.

ANTE ROOM:
Drink the last strength potion, and drag the block out of the way of the
door.->W.

SITTING ROOM:
Go and search the slot. A token will fall. Don’t go and get it yourself,
drop the slime and let him go and get it. When he returns, pick him up and
search him. The token will fall. Pick up the token and insert it into the
slot. Drop your slime monster, letting him fight the creature for you. Both
the creatures will die, and stop any fire balls that are produced. Leave the
teleporter that was revealed and ->E. Pull the lever twice ->E.

LANDLORDS ROOM:
Get the cash, wand (Unlock Door) and teleporter (Teleporter to be picked up
last). Hold the unlock door spell and cast it on the door north. ->N. Insert
the gold key into the keyhole and ->W.


                       Cadaver-The Payoff Game Guide
                                 Level Two

VILLAGE SQUARE (1) : Search all the barrels in this room until you find a
loaf of bread. ->W.

VILLAGE SQUARE (2): Pull the stick from between the wooden posts, and place
it at the entrance of the enclosure made by the posts. Jump over and get the
sack of stones. The creature revealed will come towards you and should be
blocked from it’s advance by the stick you so carefully positioned. Kill the
slime with the stones.->E->N.

VILLAGE SQUARE (3) : As soon as you enter, drop the loaf and hold your
stones. Shoot at the slimes until you kill them both (One will reveal a
key). Get the key ->N.

PRIESTS PASSAGE: Get the silver coins. ->N. PRIESTS SQUARE: Run quickly to
the east exit and enter the door. Hold the stones and ->W. Try to shoot the
eyes. A hint; when the eyes turn to attack you, you can exit the room and
re-enter. This scares the eyes and makes them retreat, giving you breathing
space to shoot. Kill both the eyes.->E.

SMITHS LODGE: Get the red casket and the gauntlet. Get on the barrel and
throw the gauntlet at the breast plate high on the north wall (The plate
should fall onto the bed). Search the breast plate and get the key. Open the
iron box (The one furthest east) and get the shurikans and the potion
(Cure). Leave the other iron box, you’ll get a spell for it later. ->W.

PRIESTS SQUARE: Insert the key from the slimes in the gold keyhole. ->N.

CARTERS LODGE: Open chest and get the coins and bag of stones. Open the
cabinet and get the orb (Activate spell). Return to the VILLAGE SQUARE (2).
->S.

EAST LANE: Use the shurikans to kill the brain monsters. ->S.

HEALERS LANE: Cast the Activate spell (Activates the lever on the other side
of the posts, destroying them)->E.

HEALERS LODGE: Get the green potion (Stamina), open the chest and get the
2nd green potion (Super Fast). Ignore the three potion bottles, they are
useless! ->N.

HEALERS ROOM: Open the chest. Get the red potion (Spider poison), the orb
(Massacre spell) the scroll (Translate) and the brown potion (Cure poison).
The cabinet holds a book that gives a clue for later on, that becomes
clearer with the translate spell. Return to the VILLAGE SQUARE (2) and hold
the massacre spell. ->N

VILLAGE SQUARE (4) As soon as you enter the room, cast the spell, killing
the slimes. Get the two bags of cash and drink the potion (Immortal). Note,
you cannot pick this potion up! ->W.

HIGH STREET: When in, jump on the brain (The immortal protects you). Now,
this is tricky but you must try to get the brain to stay near the raised
platform. When the brain jumps, you must jump from the brain onto the
platform and pull the lever. When this is done, ->S.

VILLAGE STORE (1): Pull the lever six times and press the button (As the
book said). Read the book and get the scroll that comes out of the book
(Dispel curse). Search the barrels and one of them reveals an orb (Turn
Monster). Leave the chest until you have a Dispel trap spell. ->S.

STORE LODGE: Search the pillow, get the key, pull the lever and get the
stone bag. ->W.

SOUTH LANE (1): Cast the Dispel Curse spell on the North lever and pull it
to unlock the door.->W.

FOOD STORE: In here, you must push both the sticks so they are under the
goodies on the platform behind the metal posts, and then pull the lever to
make them fall onto the sticks so you can recover them by pulling the sticks
out! So, do that and get the two cash bags and the casket. Ignore the red
potion, it’s a suicide. Get the black potion (Giant Jump). ->E->N

SOUTH LANE (2): Make sure you are topped up with stamina for the next part,
and hold the bag of stones. ->W (The south door).

UNDERTAKERS: 1st, shoot the 4 spiders (Use the method of going out & in the
room to make the spiders retreat) then, use a shurikan to kill the
undertaker. There is no way of avoiding the magic he casts. Open the chest
and get the shurikan. ->W.

STORE: Get the cast, and search the corpse, but as soon as you do, run to
the other side of the descending bars. Pull the lever to raise the bars and
return to get the key. Return to the SOUTH LANE (2). Insert the gold key in
the keyhole. ->W (The north door).

MORGUE: Search the man and (Quickly!) get the evil gem. ->E->S->S->S.

SOUTH SQUARE: Kill the two eyes with the stones. ->N->N->N.

HIGH SQUARE: Jump on the barrel and wait until four spiders have come out of
the barrel. Cast the turn monster and go to the spider barrel. Insert the
Spider Poison potion into the barrel. Search the barrel. Get the orb
(Massacre) and cast this to kill the spiders. Get the key. Pull the lever on
the north wall.->N.

VILLAGE STORE (2): In here, drop the evil gem and GET OUT OF THERE !! (To
the HIGH SQUARE. Now, return to the PRIESTS SQUARE. Insert the large silver
key into the keyhole. ->W.
note: no need to go to the village store if you insert the evil gem into
the chest you picked up at the food store. The chest hides the gem from the
priests and you can enter the priests house without problems afterwards.

PRIESTS HOUSE: Press the right hand button 1st, the left button twice, then
the right button twice, then the left button once to unlock the door. ->W,
don’t stop and ->S.

BACK ALLEY (1,2,3) ->W->W Pull the lever. ->S.and quickly get the evil
gem.->N->E->E->E.

PRIVATE CHAPEL: Drop the evil gem on the altar. Kill the slime (Tricky!).
Get the chest key when he is dead and open the chest. Get the Scroll (Dispel
trap) and the wand (Magic Missile). Return to the SMITHS LODGE, cast the
dispel trap on the chest and get the scroll (Talk with Dead). Go to the
VILLAGE STORE (1) and cast the dispel trap on the chest. Open and get the
orb (Freeze) and cash. Do not kill the spider, leave him & see! Go to the
SOUTH SQUARE and ->W.

SOUTH PASSAGE (1) : Cast the freeze spell, and pull the lever many times
until the posts have raised enough for you to jump over the slimes. But
drink the SuperFast potion before you attempt to jump ->S.

SOUTH PASSAGE (2): Run and get the two stones and the board. ->W->N avoiding
the eye.

GOLD STREET: Get the two stones and hold a bag of stone. ->S.

COUNCIL SQUARE: Kill the eye and get the stone. ->N->N.

PAUPERS SQUARE: Drop the board on the slime, and get on the board. Use the
fact that the slime moves towards you to get to the North West rock. Pick up
the rock and pull the lever. Get back on the slime and go to the North East
rock. Get the wand (Magic Missile) two rocks and pull the lever. Get the
scroll when the slime dies (Bless Magic). Cast the Bless magic on the Magic
Missile wand. Hold the wand ready for action.->W.

DEAD END: Kill the eye with the magic (Nothing else can hurt it!) Open the
chest, get the gold key and the potion (Stamina). Go back to GOLD STREET and
insert the key in the keyhole. ->W.

JEWEL LODGE: Get the small chest key. Open the iron box and open the red
casket. (The key only enables you to open one casket, so ignore the green
one, it’s contents are useless!). Get the ruby and put the ruby in the gold
and red casket that is ‘designed to hold a small gem’ (A clue if ever there
was one!). ->E. Cast an unlock door spell on the East door. ->E.

BANKERS LODGE: Kill the slime. Get the cash. Cast Dispel trap on the chest
and open it. Get the cash and the scroll (Unlock Chest). Look around the
back of the altar, you’ll find a piece of jade. Get it. Return to the
COUNCIL SQUARE, insert all the rocks you have collected into the barrel and
search the barrel. Open the casket that come out and get the Tiger Eye gem.
->N->N->E and from there, return to HIGH SQUARE. ->W.

HIGH STREET (2) : Kill the two brains. Cast the Talk With Dead spell on each
of the skulls on the north wall, they will tell you which gems to insert
into which skull (Remember, your Ruby Gem is in the casket). So, do all of
this and drink the Giant Jump potion and you have good stamina before you
then ->W. Note: the Talk With Dead spell can be used on ALL the corpses in
this level for a bit of light relief!

HIGH STREET (3): Jump onto the wooden block, drop down and jump onto the
next block. Drop down and pull the lever. This kills the creature and stops
the health loss to you. Go back and get the key, and ->W

HIGH STREET (4). Nothing here yet. ->S->E.

ARMOURY: Get the cash, and the red potion (Stamina). Open the iron box and
get the shurikans. Get the bag of rocks and open the chest. Searching the
chest gives the clue of how to get out of here. So, close, open and close
the chest to reveal a keyhole. Insert the gold key in the keyhole. ->W.

MILITIA LODGE: Get a plate, or some other rubbish and throw it toward the
potion until a metal post descends and a slime appears. Kill the slime with
stones then pull the lever. Get the orb dropped by the slime (Activate), the
green flask (Stamina) and press the far left button (Clue given by a book in
the preceding room).->W.

HANGER LANE: Get the stone. Hold the bag of stones ready for action. ->S.

HANGERS END: Kill the slime. Cast the activate spell (To pull both levers at
the same time).->W.

WIZARDS LANE (1): Kill the brain and get the key. Insert the key in the left
keyhole (The key doesn't disappear), then insert it in the right keyhole.
Enter the left door!

WINE LODGE: You can now get the rams skull, if you had entered this room
through the door you unlocked last, the rams skull would be on the other
side of the bars.->S->S.

WIZARDS LANE (2): Kill the eye with the bag of stones.->E.

GREAT LODGE: Nothing in here.->E.

MAYORS ROOM: Go and touch the chest and remember what happened! Get the
charm from the bed. ->S.

COURT YARD: Insert the sandstone into the hole. Turn to face the key and
drop the talk with dead scroll onto the spikes (Or any rubbish item). Go to
the button and press it. Keep pressing it until the small stones shot from
the hole push the spell & key off the spikes. Go and get the items.->E.

COUNCIL HALL: Get the orb (Freeze) and the scroll (Unlock Chest). Cast the
unlock chest on the wooden chest. Get the scroll (Dispel Trap). Drop the red
casket (‘property of the Wulfheim bankers lodge) and cast a dispel trap on
it ... hold on ... the casket is double trapped, cast your other dispel trap
on the casket, then cast the unlock chest on it. Open the green casket
revealed, and get all the keys. Use the gold key to unlock the west door,
and return to WIZARDS LANE (2). Insert the key marked ‘EARTH’ into the key
hole. Hold the freeze spell ->S.

WIZARDS STORE: As soon as you enter this room, cast the spell. This will
stop the platform raising and freeing the slime. Insert the key marked
‘VENUS’ into the keyhole on the north wall (Marked ‘SECOND’). Use the barrel
to let you insert the remaining key into the keyhole on the west wall. Pull
the lever.->S.

WIZARDS LODGE: Get the cash. Go and stand in the south west corner of the
room and throw the rams skull onto the altar. Get the key from the altar and
open the chest. Get the key, the potion (Strength) and the two orbs (Turn
Monster and Reveal). Return to the MAYORS ROOM. Cast the reveal spell (To
reveal the chest that disappeared when you touched it). Open the chest and
get the loot. Now, go all the way back to HIGH STREET (4).

HIGH STREET (5): Quickly cast a turn monster spell, run to the orb on the
block, get the orb (Mind blast) and cast this spell. ->W.

HIGH CLOSE: Get the cash. Insert the key in the keyhole. ->W.

VILLAGE SAFE (1): Drink a strength potion and pull the two stacked barrels
under the block suspended in mid air. Pull the lever (the barrels should
stop the block covering the door). ->S.

VILLAGE SAFE (2): Open both the chests. Get the cash, the two orbs (Turn
monster and Freeze) the key, the crown and the potion (Super Fast). Return
to HIGH STREET (4). ->N.

TEMPLE LANE: Pull the lever and don’t move. Wait till the blocks have
descended and drink the Giant Jump potion. Jump onto the top of the first
block and carry on over the top of the blocks. Now, I suggest you save the
game and prepare for action; Hold the freeze spell.->N.

TEMPLE SQUARE: Cast the freeze spell. Hold a shurikan. Get close to one of
the eyes and shoot at it until it dies. When the freeze wears off, cast a
turn monster and keep shooting at the eyes. Cast your last Turn Monster and
keep shooting. When the last spell wears off, get out of the room even if
the eyes are not all dead. ->E.

FLETCHERS HALL (1): Leave the cash ‘till later (Or get it now and see what
happens!). ->N.

FLETCHERS HALL (2): Pull both the levers to raise the block, but pull them
both again (So both are in the ‘up’ position). ->W.

BOW STORE: Quickly, run to the left hand lever (The one marked ‘up’) and
pull it. wait a couple of seconds and pull it again. The eye should now be
above your head, and cannot hurt you. You must now use the up and down
levers to get the eye at the correct height as to push the key off the metal
pole. When done, get the key, the potion (Immortal) and the wand (Unlock
door). Cast the unlock door at the exit.->E. Cast and unlock door spell on
the south door. ->S. Now you can get the cash.->W. If you haven't already
killed the eyes, forget them and drink the immortal potion, and with a bit
of speed, insert the two keys in the two keyholes and ->W. Otherwise, you
can take your time and get the charm before doing the keys and exiting.

That is the end of level 2. The most physically tough level ever in the
annuls of Karadoc. You are more than half way finding your patrons.



                       Cadaver-The Payoff Game Guide
                                Level Three

ANTE ROOM: Nothing here->N.

NORTH PASSAGE: Jump onto the altar and push the glass orb onto the floor.
Get the broken glass that results. ->N

PRIESTS ROOM: Get the cash. Open the chest and get the goblet and wand
(Fireball).->S->S->S.

SOUTH PASSAGE: Drop the goblet under the barrel with the tap. Touch the
barrel and ‘switch’ it (The goblet should fill with wine). Insert the broken
glass into the goblet. Return to the priests room and give the goblet to the
priest. When he dies, search him and get the key. Unlock the door.->W.

PRIESTS ROOM (2): Jump on the stool and search the wall. Press the secret
button. Press it twice more to get a bonus potion (stamina). Get the key and
potion. Open the chest. Get the orb and the black book in the strange
language.->S

SMALL STORE: Open the chest. Get the key and talisman. Close the chest, then
open it again. Get the orb (Teleport) and cast it.

QUIZ ROOM: (Bonus room) I’ll let you work this room out for yourself! But
when finished, cast the teleport spell again. Return to the south passage.
Insert the key in the keyhole. ->S.

NOVICES ROOM: Go to the south wall of this room, and, keeping off the three
tiles with the symbols on, get the cash and the scroll (Dispel trap).->W.

NOVICES HALL (1): Get the flask, urn and bowl that are on the blood circle.
(Note that this opens the door).->W.

NOVICES HALL(2): Pull the 1st lever and drop down. Get the cash, potion
(Unknown) wand (Unlock door). Quickly drink the unknown potion (It is a
Giant Jump) and jump out of the pit. Hold the fireball spell and shoot the
brain as he jumps out of his pit. When done, drop down and get the orb (Mind
Blast). Drink another Unknown potion to get out, and drop down the 3rd pit
.... Trust me!.

DEEP CELLAR: Drop off the platform and get the goblet. Now, just avoid the
brains for about 20 seconds, you will be transported out into the novices
room again. When this happened, pull the second lever to close the pits off.
Cast the unlock door spell on the west door. ->W.

SPIRITS HALL: ->W through the door furthest north door.

HIDIONS CELL: Get the casket, jump on the stone block and pull the lever
twice ... but very, very quickly and then jump off it again. Get the orb
(Turn Monster) and key. ->E Insert the key in the keyhole and ->W through
the other west door.

LOWER STORE: Get the cash, Potion (Strength) and orb (Activate). Jump on the
barrel, and you will find a chest key under the top barrel. Get it. Return
to the NOVICES ROOM and insert the goblet into the barrel. Get the
goblet.->W. Cast the activate spell to switch the lever and make the casket
fall. ->W->W->N.

KALINS CELL: Get the silver orb and jump on the chest. Insert this orb into
the hole. Cast the dispel trap on the chest and open it. Get the scroll
(Translate) and the talisman.->S->E (Furthest north door).

NOVICES STORE: Open the chest, get the talisman, key and scroll (Bless
potion). Get the talisman under the stairs. (Blocks will fall down). Drop
the strength potion and cast the Bless Potion spell on it. Now you have the
strength to pull the block out of the way of the door. -> E.

VESTRY: Walk around the spikes to the keyhole, insert the key into the
keyhole and walk back. Ignore ALL the potions ... they are useless!->N.

INNER SHRINE: Insert the talisman on death into the shrine of death and read
the ‘ode to shrines’ book. Note, this book must be in the strange language
for the puzzle to be complete. Get the potion that came from the talisman of
life. ->E.

OUTER SHRINE: Insert the last remaining talismans into the appropriate
shrines and read the book to get the two potions. Get the orb. Search the
altar and press the button. ->W->W.

HOLIEST WAY: Pull the lever when the key can drop onto the moving platform.
the overhang will knock it off. Get the key.->E->N.

GATHERING HALL: Drop the bowl, urn and ‘foul smelling liquid’ onto the blood
circle (ie: the three item you took off the blood circle to unlock a door
earlier) This unbars the way West. ->N.

PURIFICATORY: Open the chest on the west wall. Get the brown and yellow
potions (Super fast and oil). Get the two demi-johns and two flasks of
water. Jump on the second chest and search the left hand panel on the wall.
Press it. Search and press the second secret panel. Get the orb. Return to
the OUTER SHRINE. ->S.

VARIOS TOMB: Cast dispel trap on the chest. Drop the small grey casket you
have had for a while, cast Dispel Trap on it and open it. Get the chest key
AND the open casket (You need it later). Open the brown chest. Get the cash
and locked casket. Drink the strength potion and pull the altar away from a
hidden pit. Drop down the pit.

LOST CRYPT: Get the cash and the chest key. Open the casket and get the
casket and scroll (Unlock chest). Cast this spell on the chest with no
keyhole (Tells you by searching the chests). Get the spell from this chest
(Dispel Trap). Ignore the other chest, there is nothing of any interest in
there! Drop the last casket that remains unopened and open it. Get the orb
(Teleport) and casket. Cast the teleport spell. Return to the PURIFICATORY.
Cast dispel trap on the chest and get the three potions (all unknown, but
good).->S. Insert the key in the keyhole ->W.

VANYARS PASSAGE: The blocks should disappear. ->W.

ORACLES HALL: Do not walk on any of the tiles with a swirl in this room.
When the mouths have finished their yapping, go to the furthest north mouth.
Give him the two demi-johns, the two water flasks and the goblet with the
water in. ->N->E.

DORMITORY: Give the mouth your fireball spell. Open the chest and get the
key and wand (Unlock door). ->W.

NORTH PASSAGE: This next part takes experimentation, so I would save the
game. What you must do is drink the superfast potion and jump to the gap
that appears in the wall, and over to the west door. ->W.

GALINS CHAMBER: Nothing here. ->W.

LIBRARY: Again, this needs practice. But use the blocks to make your way to
the south door. Insert the key in the keyhole.->S->S.

WEST PASSAGE: Pull both the levers and cast the unlock door spell on the
north door. ->N.

REFECTORY: A pit should have appeared. Go down into it.

RELICARY: Open the chest. Get the key, book and gold orb. Stand in the south
east corner of the room and cat the activate spell. ->S. Insert the key into
the keyhole. ->S.

SACRED STORE: Walk under the platform, you will find a wand (Fireball). Go
up the stair and look behind the barrels, you’ll find a lever. Pull it. ->E.

SOLARIS SHRINE: Get the orb (teleport spell) and get the book. Drop the gold
orb on the altar. Read the book. ->S.

SECRET STORE: Open the chest and get the green potion (Unknown) the potion
(Fire shield) and the glass orb. ->E.

LOWER STORE: Get the cash and pull the lever. Return to KALINS CELL and
insert the glass orb into the hole.->W.

SECRET WAY: Insert the oil potion into the lever and pull the lever. Do not
go north yet, but return to the VESTRY and drop down the pit.

MONSTER PIT: Run to the east exit. ->E.

THE LUNA PATH: Get the silver orb. Cast the teleport spell.

THE LUNA SHRINE: Drop the three glass orbs into the three depressions on the
floor and the silver orb into the blood circle. Get the four orbs that
appear (Mind blast). ->W.

ORBIS SHRINE: Pull the lever twice (Ignore the south exit). ->W.

REFECTORY: Insert the four mind blast spell into the chest and get the mind
blast spell that comes out on the fifth time you open the chest. Return to
the SECRET WAY via the LOWER STORE. Before you continue, cast the bless
potion spell on the fire shield potion ->N.

HOLIEST WAY: In here, drop the three caskets you should have. In the first
one, insert the mind blast spell (The 150 power one), in the second one
insert the fireball wand and in the third, insert the fire shield potion.
Drink any stamina you have left.->W.

GREAT SHRINE: Go and search the HUGE! guardian and get the gem. ->E. Get the
three caskets, the one with the fire shield you must pick up last! Give the
gem to the mouth.->W (And mind the pit that appeared!). Quickly now ... go
to the South east corner, drop the 1st casket and open it. This should be
the fire shield. Drink it. Drop the other two caskets and get their
contents. Cast the mind blast spell then get in front of the guardian. Hold
the fireball spell and shoot ALL the charges at him. Every shot MUST HIT, so
only shoot when the fireball’s he cast are floating in the air, if your
shots hit these, you won’t be able to complete the level. Anyhow,
eventually, he should die and allow you to go West, onward to the final
level.



                       Cadaver-The Payoff Game Guide
                                 Level Four

In this level, collect all ‘rubbish’ in the early rooms.

ENTRANCE HALL: Get the orb (Mind Blast), the daggers, the three poles, the
cash, the two urns and the large skull.->N.

MAIN TUNNEL: Get the two rocks. ->E.

DEATH CAVERN: In here, you must jump onto the stone platform, and move it
around by moving your man. You must avoid the spinning spike blocks and make
your way to the raised platform. When you have done this, get the casket,
leave the flask (Suicide), read the book and get back on the platform and
make your way back.->W.->S.

ENTRANCE HALL: Go to the hole and search it. Pay up EVERY time it asks you.
Get the two flasks (Alcohol and Unknown) and the snake gem. Throw one of the
rocks at the urn. Get the orb (Dispel Magic) and the chest key.->N->W.

WEST CAVE: Hold the dispel magic spell. Walk on the three tiles with
depressions (Until three evil gems drop) As soon as all three are revealed,
cast the dispel magic. Walk on the depression in the south west corner. Get
the key and the boulder. ->N.

BARRED HALL: Go and eat the mushrooms until you find a flask (Stamina). Drop
one of the poles between the second and third posts from the North, pull the
lever and when the sinning blocks are on their south path, push the post to
stop their movement. ->E.

LOCKING ROOM: The idea of this room is that the door you are facing locks,
and the one behind you unlocks. So, face the east door and drink the alcohol
potion. ->E.

LIFT ROOM: Get on the barrels and throw the boulder onto the platform on the
north wall. When it starts moving, jump on the platform on the west wall and
pull the lever. Open the casket and get the orb (Banish). Now drop you other
casket and open it. Get the wand (Unlock door) and magic stone. Get the two
caskets. ->N.

PIT CHAMBER: Throw three rubbish objects (Not the sticks or the caskets) at
the plank suspended on the two posts. Press the button. Use the planks to
get to the key. Go and press the button again and cast the unlock door on
the west door. ->W.

CENTRE TUNNEL: Drop the gold key, the unlock door spell, the mind blast, the
cure poison potion, alcohol,. Now drop the two caskets and put the silver
key in one and the banish spell in the other. ->W

HOLY SHRINE: Drop the caskets and open them. Drop the banish on the stone
block. Get the new orb (Confusion). Insert the silver key in the key hole.
->N.

ROCK ROOM: Throw two rubbish objects to the east and south of the post to
stop the revolving blocks. Pull both the levers. ->E->S. Get all the objects
you dropped. ->N->E.

SMALL CAVERN: Search the skull and pull the hidden switch. Get the cash,
potion (Unknown) , black potion (Strength). Press the button then open the
chest. Quickly get the scroll (Dispel Trap) and ->N.

SMALL CAVERN: Search the shield and get it. Search the hole and get the
bomb.->E.

SMALL CAVERN: Insert the strength potion in the urn. ->S.

SMALL CAVERN: Eat the mushrooms. ->E.

TWIN LIFTS: Here, you must put the shield under the moving platform so it
goes over to the east gates. Then, drop one of the small sticks you have
onto the platform, so it touches the casket. Put the shield under the
platform again. The platform should go over again to the west, and the stick
should push the casket off. Cast dispel trap on the casket and open it. Get
the two keys. ->W. Cast dispel trap on the chest and get the orb (Reveal).
->E. Insert the gold key in the keyhole. ->N.

EAST CHAMBER: Cast the confusion spell. search the urn and get the strength
potion. Go to the north wall and cast the reveal spell. Pull the lever. ->W.

EAST TUNNEL: Go up the stairs and push the barrel onto the lower barrel.
Drink the strength potion and pull the barrel under the door on the north
wall (In the air). ->E->N.

THE ROOM WITH NO NAME(Sorry!): Pull the lever. ->W.

FRED ROOM: Search the two bags of green stones and get the small green gem.
Open the chest and get the magic stones. Jump on the platform and ->S. You
should land on the barrels. Push the button and get the green gem. ->E->N.
Insert the two gems in the skull lock. ->N.

INNER ROOM: Get the cash and scroll (Unlock chest). Cast this spell on the
casket. Get the cash and key. Open the chest and get the cash and potion
(Stamina). Search the fireplace. Insert the serpent gem into the fireplace.
Pull the lever. ->N.

SECRET ROOM: Get the orb (Activate) and the glass orb ->S (Hurry, you are
loosing energy!). Cast the activate spell. Wait until the fireplace has
totally descended and pull the lever. Get the key. ->S->E.

NO NAME ROOM: Drop the glass orb down the pit. Get the bombs and drop down
the pit.

SMALL PIT : Get the gold key. ->S

MIDDLE PIT : Avoid the monsters. -> S.

LARGE PIT : Save the game !!! This is tough. The button to the left of the
door makes the platform with the orb on disappear, and the button to the
right makes the other platform disappear. The idea is to make the 1st
platform disappear so the orb drops onto the second platform, and then make
that one disappear, dropping the orb on the floor. I can’t really write how
to do this, it’s a matter of trial and error. Get the orb and cast it to
escape the room. Return to FRED ROOM.

FRED ROOM: Jump on the platform. Cast UNLOCK DOOR on door. -> N.-> W

NO NAME ROOM: Position yourself near the potion. Throw a magic stone. The
stone should move towards you, bringing the potion with it. Get the potion
(Immortal). Drink the potion and jump over the spikes to the other side. Get
the chest and go back over the spikes. Cast a dispel trap on the casket and
open it. Get the key. Unlock the keyhole and go back over the spikes. You
should have enough time to do all of this.-> N

NO NAME ROOM: Cast a Mind blast to kill the bat. Jump on the stones as they
move until you get to the other side. Pull the lever, get the potion and
cast another mind blast to kill the monster. Follow the stones back. Exit
the room. Cast the Unlock door on the door. ->W

GEM CAVERN: In this room, you have to flip 6 switches in order whilst gems
are dropping. The idea is to push the gems into the pit to stop them
damaging you. A tip is to stand near the pit, let a gem drop, push it in the
pit and run and press a button. The order of the buttons is 325146 (button 1
= the far left button) and you have the immortal potion to help you. You
also need to get the bomb. When you have done this, -> S.

NO NAME ROOM: Drop and press each of the bombs you have to blow up all of
the boulders in the way. -> S. If you are careful, you won’t fall off the
ledge. You can go back North to get bonus cash and a spell. You can even
return to the Room where you used the magic stone to get a lot of bonus
stamina, but remember the Gem cavern will could still have dropped gems.

WEST CHAMBER: Drop down . -> S

HOLY CHAMBER: Here, you must press the button to align the platforms to make
an even route for the boulder to roll down and hit the spike. When you have
aligned the platforms, pull the lever to set the boulder off. Get the key
that is revealed. ->N->W.

WEST TUNNEL: Off this room are four cells. Use the key to get into all the
cells and get the skulls in each cell. Search the dead rat in cell 1 and get
the orb in another cell. In cell 2, you must kill the man (Use the daggers)
to get the last skull. When you have all the skulls, save the game -> N.

THE EXIT: Use the turn monster spell to dispel the monsters. Go and touch
the key, it will be teleported. Do this four times. Finally, the key will be
in the middle of the room where you can get it. Go and unlock the door and
-> W.

THE FINAL: Well, that's it really except to play around in that room.
Solutions for the other levels of Cadaver-The Payoff can be gained from the
guides for level one, level two and level three.
