

 Space Hulk Hints/Quick Docs
 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

  LMB = Left Mouse Button
  RMB = Right Mouse Button

  THE MAIN SCREEN

  Shows up to five terminator windows
  Shows map on left side
  Shows movement pad on right side
  Shows Freeze Button,Freeze Time Left Bar, and Squad Switch Buttons
     on bottom rigthand corner

  MOVEMENT & ATTACK

  You can use the arrow keys or use the mouse by clickin on the movement
  arrows on the movement pad (right side of main screen).  The little circle
  in the middle is a fire button (LMB).

  You can also move the mouse pointer to the left, top, or right of the
  screen and a little arrow should show up, clicking the LBM will do that
  action.

  HINT: In a long corridor/hallway you can fire all the way down the hall
  and kill enemies not seen on screen.  This is very helpful if you are just
  sitting there and know a bunch of aliens are approaching.

  HINT: I have noticed that fast repetitive firing is not very effective,
  use short burst in varied positions, it only takes one shot to kill the
  enemy, so wasting 10 shots on the floor is gonna get you wasted.  Also,
  movement seems to be hampered by shooting too fast, so make short controlled
  burst.  (Geez, sound like a freakin' army dude!)

  In the main screen you can see what is going on with the other terminators.
  YOU CAN make the guy fire the weapon by pressing the LMB on the window
  of the terminator you want to use.

  When aliens are close up, terminators use hand-to-hand combat, if they
  are equipped with good hand-to-hand combat weapons, then they have a good
  chance of winning, but the dudes with blasters usually loose.  I just
  push the LMB like hell when I am up close.


  SWITCHING TERMINATORS and SQUADS

  In the main screen, just press the RMB on the terminator you want to
  control.  Your old current terminator switches windows with the one
  you selected.

  In order to switch squads (if you have more than one), click on the
  Squad Switch button (it looks like an exclamation point on a striped
  background, lower right corner of the screen, or left upper corner on the
  detailed map screen)

  DETAILED MAP SCREEN

  In order to get here, push the RMB on the map while on the main screen,
  (its the left lower window on the main screen).

  Once here, use the arrow keys to move around the map.

  With this screen you can tell your guys where to go and what to do.  Just
  select the terminator you want to use and click on where you want him to
  go (LMB).  You can do it step by step or in one big step. I think you get a
  total of four different movements for each guy (like move to here, turn,
  move to here).  You'll see, its not hard.

  HINT: When moving your guys, make sure you are not having one guy wait
  for another to move that is not going to move.  The default path for a
  dude is not always the one you want.  All you have to do is select a
  different point to get around the guy and then move to where you want
  to go.

  The top of this screen has a few buttons.  There are two turn buttons,
  one is turn to the right and one is turn to the left.  Use these to make
  your guy turn a certain way after he moves to where he needs to move (if
  you need him to).  Ok, then there's two door things, open door and close
  door.  (I personally never used these)  Just use them the same way, move
  to an area, click on open/close door and whatever.

  Underneath those buttons you should see some more.  One is line of site,
  another is change squad, and another is erase last movement (in caes you
  mess up).  All these are pretty self-explanatory.  There is also a 'GO'
  button in which you can see your dudes move around in a top-view fashion.

  HINT:  If you want a guy to follow you, you can make him go to a certain
  point, but keep your guy in front of him and go to that point.  The guy
  will go behind you b/c he is waiting for you to move.   I used this
  technique a few times so that I had my men with me (behind me) and then
  they would split up after they reach the desired point.

  HINT: You can use this screen to get an extended view of your surrounding
  area.  This way, you can tell if there are any enemy dudes around you,
  the normal map screen shows less.

  OTHER TERMINATORS

  The other terminators will automatically fight on there own.  The only
  weapons that I don't think they will use automatically is the flame
  thrower.

  WEAPONS

  Blaster - Fires long range, standard weapon (automatic)
  Flame Thrower - Kills everything in a 3 square radius, will kill your
                own terminators too though.  You get 6 of these
  AC (dont know what it is) - you get 10, its a projectile weapon (automatic)
  Axe and Claws - Hand to hand, they kick, you can crush enemies, but
                if you miss, C-YA!

  (I trust the blaster...)
  automatic means that the terminator will use it automatically (without
  you having to fire for him)

  PICKING UP ITEMS

  Put the pointer on the object and press the RMB, if you push the RMB later
  and the pointer is on the floor, you can drop the object

  OPENING/CLOSING DOORS

  Moving the mouse pointer to the left or right of the screen (the arrow
  should come up), and then pressing the RMB.

          Right = Close Door
          Left  = Open Door

  (Note: This is how you secure an area)

  FREEZE BAR

  When in freeze mode, everything stops, it lets you think and plan your
  attack.  You will probably use this most while in the detailed map
  screen.

  FREEZE TIME BAR

  This bar shows how much freeze time you have left, it regenerates while
  you are in 'live' action and decreases while in freeze mode.

  THE END.
  ~~~~~~~~

  Fixed by...  SOREHEAD!  


