                         KINGS QUEST V SOLUTION

                         TYPED BY COBRA OF AERO
                         MAPS BY MASTER OF AERO


Once upon a time the late King Graham was walking around in his
forest Daventry,when he decided to head for home he could not see
he castle,and all his family ! gone.............................
King Graham will know (from the owl Cedric),that a bad magician
has shrunk the whole thing and draged away with it.
The bad magician is named Mordack !
Graham is now led to Cedrics master,the good magician Crispin.
He will learn Graham the language of the animals,and give him a
magic stick.
After the visit by Crispin,Graham and his friend and aid Cedric
goes to the tailor in the town.Graham looks at the nice warming
coat,but finds it expensive.
When leaving the store he finds a silver coin next to the door
and picks it up.Now he goes to the barrel,on the opposite site
of the street and gets the dead fish in the barrel,and then he
leaves the town.
At the bakers shop just outside town he buys a cake.And then goes
on to the west,where he find a tree with a hole.
The tree is at the moment occupied by some honeybees,and a big
bear,which has been attracted by the smell of honey.
Graham throws the fish at the bear,and the bear takes the fish
and leaves the scene.
As a thank you,you recieve a honeycomp from the queen bee,youhave
to get the honeycomp from the tree by yourself.
Near the tree you discover a wooden stick which you take,it might
come in handy,sometime.
Go north to where the termitary is.Throw the wooden stick at the
dog and he will leaves the scene.
The termite king thanks you for rescueing him from the dog,and
offers you his services.
Now you have to enter the desert !
Lokk at the map ! And rdont forget to visit the oasis to get some
needed refreshment.
In the northwest you find the tempel,here you have to hide
outside and wait for the two "desert bandit" to arrive on their
horses.One of the bandits knocks on the tempel door,with a
diamond headed stick,and the door opens.
The bandits have a camp south of the tempel,here you go to get
the diamond headed stick,it is in a small tent.
Then you go back to the tempel and knocks on the tempel
door,which then opens,and you enter the treasure palace.
All you have to get inside the treasure room is the oillamp and
the gold coin close to the door on the right.
Then you have to exit before the doors closes again,since the
doors ”only• opens from the outside.
Now before leaving the desert you have to go to the skeleton
and get the shoe,now leave the desert and go to the gipsy.

Look at the card !
The man at the door lets you pass for the prize of a gold coin,
which you give him,to get to see the fortune teller.
The fortune teller now explains to you why Mordack has kidnapped
your family.
Mordack is the brother of Mannanan (Look Kings quest III©To heir
is human).Which Alexander,Sir Grahams son at that time turned
into a cat ! And only Alexander can turn Mannanan back into human
again.
Now Mordack is threatening to kill Alexanders mother and sister,
if he doesnt turn Mannanan back to human again.
The only major problem is that Alexander has forgotten the magic
spell !
The fortune teller gives you a amulet,to protect you against
evil spells.
Then you leave the fortune teller,and goes to the east where you
see a big weeping willow (Tree).The tree tells you that it once
was a princess,and that the witch has stolen her heart.
Now you dont have to be afraid of the witch,because of your
amulet.So you give her the oillamp,which she opens and
immediately shes been neutralized by the ghost from the lamp.
Now you have to go to the witches house where you open the casket
and gets the spinning wheel.In the drawer you find a bag
containing 3 jewels,Then you have to get the key in the lamp.
The key you have to use,to open the small door in the weeping
willow,the easiest way to get to the tree is east.
Behind the small door in the tree is the golden heart of the
princess.
Now to get out of the spelled forest,you hav to make some small
tricks.
Go to the west side of the witches house and press the honey out
of he honeycomb,the driping honey will create a sticky substance.
Now you have to drop the 3 jewels so that the last one is
directly in the sticky honey.
Now a little troll comes into the screen and he collects the
jewels one by one,until he get stuck in the honey.
You have to free him,and as a gesture he guides you out of the
spelled forest and gives you a pair of boots.
Now go to the weeping willow and give it (the princess) the heart
back.He then recieves a harp,and at the place where the gipsies
were at you find a tambourine.
The midget family is interestet in the spinning wheel,so you
trade it in for a wooden doll.
At the backer,a mouse is in great danger,its allmost being caught
by the cat.So you have to throw the shoe at the cat,which then
exits the scene.
As a thank from the mouse you recieve the promise of help if ever
needed.
Then you have to visit the town where you go to the toy maker,he
will change your wooden doll for a sledge.
Then you go to the shoemaker,he will change your boots for a
little hammer.
Then you visit the taverna,and soon you will get mugged by two
of the bad guys,the will tie you up and drag you into the cellar.
Here you call for the mouse which will arrive rapidly,and will
bite the ropes.
You get the rope,and breaks the lock on the door with the hammer
and then you can enter the kitchen.
Here you have to take the lambmeat from the supply room.
Then you have to leave the house,by the backside,that is the left
door.
Next to the taverna,is a barn with a big haystack in front of it.
Now you have to search the haystack to find the needle !
But remember the termites.The will arrive and search the haystack
in no time,and the termite king will present you with the golden
needle.
You the go back to the tailor,which will give you the nice
warming coat you saw there before.
Now Sir Graham has all the things needed to cross the mountains !
On the east your pass is blocked by a snake,use the trambourine
it will scare the snake away.
When your in the mountains you must be aware of the cold weather
there and wear your warm coat,and dont forget to eat when your
hunger starts to appear.Feel free to eat some lamb meat.
The pass ends by a deep ravine,here you have to use the rope as a
lasso and throw it (a lot of throwing in this game !) at the rock
NOT at the branch it will colapse,and the good bye.
Now climb up the rope and you will get to a plateau which is
separated by a deep ravine,at the forward rocks there are some
projecting steps,allmost like a stair,use them to pass the
ravine.
Then all by the sudden,a wolf appears and it takes Cedric and
runs away.
You have to get on the sledge and persuit the wolf,then you will
come to the castle of the ice princess.
In front of the castle,there is a big eagle,who asks for
something to eat,so you give him some lambs meat,and he will fly
away.
At the castle you will find out that you have been trespassing
and that you will be sentenced to be aeten by the wolves.
So you better act fast and start playing your harpe,then you
will get a second chance.
A wolf will take you to the crystal cavern where the terrible
teti has his residence,your task is to get the yeti out.
You just throw (you see,throwing again) the cake at the yeti and
he will fall into the sure dead !
Now you have to take a piece of crystal,you loosen it with the
hammer.The ice princess is very moved from what she have seen
and lets you and Cedric leave.
Shortly after a twin headed vulture arrives and grabs you,
and takes you to its nest.
In the nest you discover a medaillon.
Soon the eagle will come and take you to the sea,where Cedric
is allready waiting.
You pick up the wood chisel taht somebody left on the beach,
and heads for the north.
Here you find a sailing boat,but before you proceed you have to
tighten the hull of the boat with some wax (From the honeycomb).
Now you go sailing.Look map !
At the Harpyien island you play the harp to calm down the
Harpyiens.At the lay©by where you been taken you find a fish hook
lying on the ground,then go south where you find Cedric,hes been
hurt by the Harpyiens.At the beach you get the big shell,enters
the boat and heds for the mainland.Look map !.There you meet a
hermit which helps Cedric and will help you to get to Mordacks
castle.
But before that you have to give the old hermit the shell,he
needs it as a hearing aid,you see he cant HEAR you.
You will be guided to Mordacks castle by a mermaid,his castle is
located on a island of rocks.
Just before you reach the island the boat is crashed against
the riff,so now there is no way back.
You have to get the dead fish from the beach and then you proceed
up the stairs to Mardocks castle.
The entrance to the castle is guarded by two rock dragons,which
will burn any intruder to ashes if comes close.
Here you have to use the crystal,it reflects the energy back to
the dragons,which then is permanently out of order.
Just let of the trenches which surrounds the castle you find a
stair which leads to a fence solid plantet in the ground.
You use the wood chisel to open it,and you enter a underground
labyrinth,here you have to find a monster.
I cant tell you where it is,since its changing its location all
the time.
When you find the monster you give it the tambourine,and it will
make a somersault of joy and thereby loose its hairpin.
You get the hairpin and uses it on the door to the supply room
which leads you to the castle of Mordack.
You search the supply room and in one of the cabinets you find a
bag af dried peas,next to the supply room you find the kitchen
where you meet one of Mordacks prisoners,princess Cassima.
Give her the medaillon and she will trust you.
Now you have to walk around in the castle until you meets the
servant of Mordack which will put you in a prison cell.
In the prison cell you search the mouse hole and discovers a
piece of chease which you get with the help of the fish hook.
Then princess Cassima will free you from the prison and take you
back to the kitchen.
Next time you meet the servant you just pour the peas on the
floor and he will fall.
It is also possible to meet a black cat,which is Mannanan,if you
do,just give him the fish and put him in the bag with the peas.
Now you have to go to Mordacks library.Look map !
In the library you have to read the magic book which lies on the
table.After a while you can see Mordack is going to bed in the
room next to.He leaves his magic stick on his night table,you get
it and goes to the laboratory,its opposite of the bedroom.
There you see a big round shaped machine,two trays is connected
to the machine,you put Mordacks magic stick on the one tray and
Crispins on the other.
Now you have to throw the cheese in the hole of the machine and
it will run,it will then transfer all the magic from Mordacks.
stick to Crispins stick.
Just when the machine is finished Mordack will arrive and grap
for his useless stick.
However the mad Mordack is not yet beaten.
First he will transform himself in to different monsters,just to
finish of Graham.
The only chance you have is to transfer Mordack into something
else.So you use Crispins stick and you can use four different
spells.If you dont want to try them yourself,try :4©2©1©3.
Mordack finally turns himself into  a firewall which you quickly
responds to with a raincloud.
That was the end for mr. Mordack.
Now the good magician Crispin will appear and cast a s[ell that
will bring your castle back to where its supposed to be.
Then princess Cassima and the rest of the royal family can return
to the castle.
And you have just solved KINGS QUEST V with Maximum score.

This is COBRA of AERO signing off.
See you in another of my neverending solutions.



        Write To Us At:
        Aero
        Poste Restante
        DK-8800 Viborg
        Denmark

End.
