
                             Cadaver Game Guide
                                 Level one

The Caves lie beneath the castle and contain several distinct areas: the
mines, the mortuary, the gaol, the crypts, the chapel and the Kings tomb. A
secret opening onto the marsh has allowed Karadoc to gain access unobserved.
Karadoc starts in the old mine workings and is seeking the route up to the
next level in the castle.

Note: the symbol N means go north, E go east etc.

1. First room: collect the pickaxe, coin and diary, N.

2. Pull lever (unlocks north door), N.

3. Collect sack of stones (weapon), W.

4. Kill creature, collect charm, S.

5. Collect runic stone, kill spider, N.

6. N, N.

7. Move sacks to reveal concealed green gem, collect green gem, kill worm,
S.

8. E, E, S into main chamber.

9. Collect rope, kill worm, E, E.

10. Collect key, return to start room.

11. From start room E, pull lever (unlocks main chamber south door), open
chest for clue about the gem behind the sacks (in case this was missed
earlier).

12. Return to main chamber, kill/avoid worm, S.

13. Throw pickaxe at wall until it is low enough to jump or demolished, S.

14. Search skeleton for clue book, E.

15. Buttons unlock door to Dragon room, combination: 1 4 3 2, left hand
button equals 1. Players can discover this combination later. Even though
they may gain access to the dragon room now they will not have the power to
destroy it, E.

16. Now at point A, N, W into the well.

17. Take key hidden under bones, beware of the sea monster, E.

18. W into store, open chest, collect coin, chicken and bread, W, N into
gaol.

19. Collect coin on table, use key in keyhole in wall to raise pit cover in
Cadaver store, read book, providing clue about gems and the pit, N into
cadaver store.

20. E into cell 3, E.

21. E into cell 4, collect key, W.

22. Return to point A, E.

23. Collect green gem, press button in wall to raise pit cover in cadaver
store, read book providing clue about gems and the pit, N into cadaver
store.

24. Drop rope down hole, walk across hole to fall into pit.

25. Open rat to reveal key for east door, collect other key on floor and
open chest, collect urn , E.

26. E into small room, collect green gems (you should now have 6 green gems
in your rucksack), return to main pit room.

27. Throw all six gems into the large pool, you should be teleported. If you
don’t have all six gems, return to the connected passages through the east
door, make a stack of stones or other useless objects and jump up to reach
the chain hanging from the ceiling.

28. If you threw all six gems into the pool you will have been transported
to point B. Either means of leaving the pit will eventually return you to
point F. E into the embalming room.

29. Search the skeleton, collect the key, touching the corpse will disturb a
monster, N into the balm store.

30. There are several potions upon a stone ledge: Cure poison, shot shield,
stamina, poison (acrid). Consume and collect any of these you want. The key
on the floor is for the keyhole in the west wall. It reveals 3 spiders but
is not necessary. Return to embalming room and E into the purifactory.

31. Collect learn potion spell and giant jump potion (frogskin), return to
embalming room.

32. The offal store (south) contains nothing of great value.

33. Return to the corridor with the row of buttons (W, W, W, W).

34. From the corridor with the row of buttons S, kill the hopping brain with
stones. Insert key (skeleton) in the keyhole and S.

35. W, W into the mourning room, kill the hopping brain (it’s asleep so it
should be fairly easy unless it wakes up), collect the holy water flasks,
collect the charm and S.

36. Kill the brain (this one’s not asleep so it’s tougher), collect the key
left by the dead brain, W, do not collect the crown as this is a fake.

37. N into the royal armoury, collect the bronze armour, the sword, red
striped shield and bronze helmet, (this was the king’s personal armour), S,
W into the ante room.

38. Press the button on the wall (without the Kings armour this would not
work), this will transport you to the kings secret treasury, collect the
crown, coins and charm and when finished pull lever.

39. You will now be back in the ante room, S, open the chest (key from
brain), collect the joint of meat and coin.

40. Return to the mourning room and E into the passage, E, S. You should now
be in the first room of the chapel, 2 bugs will be wandering around. These
bite if you touch them and they spit shots. Kill/avoid the bugs, put out the
flames in the bowls by jumping on them, this unlocks the east door, E into
the ‘way of death’.

41. E, E into the common crypt. Collect the key on the altar (revealed when
the urn smashes), push the four stones off the altar to reveal a cure
potion, collect the potion, push the two remaining urns off the slab to
reveal a dispel trap spell and a canister of experience (open to get the
experience), E into the shrine.

42. Collect the money and the other bag of stones, return to common crypt.

43. S into gluttons shrine, throw/drop the joint of meat onto the shrine to
be rewarded with a super fast potion, collect potion, return to common
crypt, W into passage.

44. N into lesser crypt, under heap of stones is runic stone (spell), S and
N again to enter the priests crypt, search the large urn to reveal a charm
and a worm, collect the charm, S, S into the warriors crypt.

45. Drop gold funerary coin onto the tomb of Kazah, collect potion (fire
shield, save this for the dragon), N.

46. W, S, collect key, N, N into the lords crypt, N (you have already seen
these two rooms if you came out of the pit using the gems), cast a dispel
trap spell on the chest, open chest, collect charm, collect urn.

47. Return to the first room of the chapel, S into the next part of the
chapel, kill or avoid bug, drop the urn of Lord Carolus onto the altar of
Lord Carolus, collect spell (unknown and unusable until known, then massacre
- save for dragon), S via inner sanctum.

48. From the inner sanctum W into the crematorium, place the urn of Ragnar
the Chief alchemist onto the appropriate slab, collect flask of blood,
return to inner sanctum.

49. Drop flask of blood on the high altar, collect the key and spell (read
magic), use the key in the keyhole in the west wall, W.

50. Cast dispel trap spell onto chest, open chest and collect the runic
stone (read language), N into the library, collect the spell (map), return
to the inner sanctum.

51. Drop the unknown spell that you find earlier and cast read magic upon
it, this will allow you to use it to kill the dragon, S, W into the
purificatory.

52. Drop a flask of holy water into the bowl, drink the bowl, this will
teleport you into a hidden treasure chamber, pull the lever, collect the
reward, pull the lever, this will return you to the room adjacent to the
purificatory, repeat as many times as you have flasks of holy water (max 3).

53. Having got the massacre spell and the fire shield potion, and the Kings
crown you are fully equipped to face the dragon, return to the passage with
the four buttons in a row, if you’ve not pressed them press them in the
order 1, 4, 3, 2, W, N into the dragon room.

54. Drink the fire shield potion to protect you from the fireballs, hold the
massacre spell and press fire to cast it, the dragon will blow up, press the
button on the wall, N and pull the lever, this will take you to level 2.



                             Cadaver Game Guide
                                 Level two

On entering level 2, you will have lost all objects from your rucksack that
are not spells or potions (The idea of this is to free space in your
rucksack). This level is set in the ground floor of castle Wulf. It's
background is that it was inhabited by Carolus and his six captains : Axel,
Brokson, Grimbold, Ragnar, Helm and Magnus. Here, they discussed policies,
the rule of the castle and magic matters.

The aim of this level is to find, collect and return six transport stones
created by Carolus for his captains, an urn that must contain the ashes of
one of the captains, and an emerald to enable entry to the final room....

Things, of course, are not that easy.

Note: the symbol N means go north, E go east etc.

1) Nothing interesting. ,N

2) Open the chest on the floor and take the shot shield potion. Jump on the
altar and open the strong box. (Beware of the flames, or, if you have the
fire shield potion from level 1, use that to protect yourself). Get the
shuriken and the wand (Massacre) ,N

3) There are two 'pump creatures' in here. Their shots are powerful but
inaccurate, use the shot shield potion if needed, or shoot with the shuriken
or magic missile spell from level 1. When dead, get the potion (Stamina). ,E
(Either exit).,S (To chapel armoury)

4) (Spikes appear) To remove the spikes, pull the level when BOTH lights are
black. Open the chest, get the shuriken, the books are quite interesting.
After reading them, grab two or three of them.,N

5) Get the ashes, Search the altar, Get the urn and scroll. Jump up and
touch the Rams skull. Drop the urn and INSERT the ashes into the urn, and
pick it up again. ,N

6) OK... Throw a book when there is a gap between the moving stone blocks,
you may need to try with a couple of books. When you have done this, discard
any other books in the rucksack (You need the space) and pull the lever. Go
under the stone blocks, but beware, they hurt if you touch them! ,E

7) Pull the lever and wait till the stone block it at full height. The door
to the east is locked, but what you have done is to open up a short cut for
later. This is non-essential, but gives you XP and easy way to escape to
level 3. ,W,S,W,N (Back to Lords Shrine).

8) Open the casket and the strong box. Insert the Mind blast spell (Power 0)
into the casket. Get the casket and insert the casket into the strong box.
This recharges the mind blast spell. Open the strong box and the casket to
recover your spell. Jump up and hit the two skulls, this again, opens a fast
way back, but is non-essential. ,S and pick up the teleport stone. This will
transport you to another room.,S

9) Quickly go for the coin, but avoid the slime (Difficult as the EYE will
freeze you every so often) ,N. If the slime touched you, you will be
poisoned. You should still have a Cure poison potion from level 1 (It may be
unknown). Use this to cure yourself. Press the lever in the order : Left,
Right, Middle, Left, Then press the button. ,W,S ... Hold your recharged
Mind blast spell,W (Middle exit).

10) As soon as you enter, fire the Mind blast spell. This destroys all the
pump creatures, making life a lot easier.,W

11) Drink the shot shield potion. Then quickly go get the coin and wand
(Spell). ,W.

12) Press the button. Search the chair (Revels a switch). Pull the switch.
Press the new button which gives a book, giving a clue to a long lost room.
This room is a bonus room, which, if done correctly, will give you Mega-XP
and Mega-GP! ,W

13) Pull the lever. ,E,N (Up stairs) ,S. Get the key and drop down to the
chest. Open the chest, get the Gold 1st then the teleport stone, taking you
to another room.,S,S,S.

14) Hurry now or the eye will freeze you and the slime poison you. ,E (Top
exit). Get the clever on the floor. The barrel on the left of the screen is
a stamina potion, drink it and be merry! ,W,E (Bottom exit). Grab the flask
(Cure poison) ,W,S,S.

15) Be fast now... hurry and jump on the pan. Wait until it rises in the
air, you can then touch, and open the floating chest! If you mistime the
jump onto the pan, you will have to jump on the bed, and make your way to
the pan. (You cannot move Karadoc when the bed is descending, to make life a
little harder!). Grab the key that came from the chest. ,N,E.

16) Hold and cast the Sleep spell (Sleeping the watching guardian, and
freeing your way) ,S.

17) Jump on the strongbox, and touch the trophy, you find a hidden switch,
pull it for your exit. Open the strongbox and get the gold.,W. Press the
button (Unlocking a door) Open the chest, Get the two bottles, then the
teleporter, taking you to another room.

18) Go up the steps and push all 10 bottles off the platform onto the floor
(...And if 10 green bottles should accidentally fall ..!) One bottle will
reveal a key, and pushing all 10 will give you gold & XP bonus. ,N Insert
key from bottle into keyhole ,E.

19) The key for the keyhole in this room is hidden under the wooden
platform. Walk slowly under here, and you will eventually find it. Grab it
and insert into the keyhole. This will lower a chain. Go onto the platform
and pull the chain. Go down the pit.

20) Pull the level, go down the pit. Quickly, get the two keys, pull the
level (revealing another chain and opening a block that releases another
slime) run to the chain and just touch the chain (You automatically climb
up).

21) Touch this chain (You climb up).,W,W,W. Throw the clever at the
tortoise. Search the tortoise, and open it. Get the clever. Insert the key
made of tortoise shell into the keyhole. ,N,N,E,N Go up stairs ,N,N.

22) Insert 2nd gold key into keyhole. Drink the superfast potion if you have
one. Wait until the light goes black and run, get the coin and scroll. ,N.
If you walk when the light isn't black, the gates will drop, barring your
way, don't worry, there is another way into the room.

23) Open the chest and grab the transporter. Go back up the stairs and
,S,S,S Down the stairs and ,S,E. The coin bag that has appeared has nothing
in. This happens the next three times you re-enter this room. ie: a new bag
appears on the pressure pads that release darts. The 1st two bags are empty,
the 2nd two contain gold. ,E,E,N,N

24) You should be in the main passage with the 3 eyes. Cast the Sleep spell
to allow passage past the eyes. ,N and grab the final token. Go to the
W.U.L.F. slot and insert the four tokens you have picked up. When you insert
the fourth, the West door will open.,W.

25) Pull the lever and wait till the platform reaches the top. ,W.

26) Run quickly under the platform that the slime is on. Now, if you played
level 1 correctly, you should still have a 'Dispel trap' spell. That can be
used to open the chest on this platform. Move slowly West, letting the slime
follow you (Above) and manoeuvre the slime so it pushes the chest off the
platform. Cast the dispel trap spell, and open the chest. (Contains cash &
XP).

27) You can now go west, kill the tortoise with the cleaver, open the
tortoise to get the key and go West. This takes you to the room that you
should of been in with point 23 above. But, if you walked over the pressure
pad in the previous room, you will need to go into the room. (See point 23).

28) From the guard room (With the platform & slime) ,S. This room is another
Bonus room. You don't need to do this room at all. :- Pull the lever, and go
get the coin and shuriken. The gates will close and the mouth will start to
talk to you. It will drop meat, leave this for later. He will then drop
gold. Then he drops a Suicide potion, tempting the player to end his life.
To escape, you can, with skill, throw this potion at the mouth, killing it
and freeing your passage. If you miss, there is another way ... wait for the
creature to enter the room, drop the meat, and push it through the bars, the
creature will eat the meat and transport you out.

29) From the Guard room : Go up the stairs, ,E Get the potion & spell ,E and
pull the lever ,W and drop down to ground level ,E,E.

30) Pull the lever, push the board over the pit, get on the board, and pull
the lever ,N (High exit). Get the key, ,E.

31) The three eyes guard the gems, so cast your Sleep spell, and get the
gems. Go back up the stairs, and ,W,S,S,E.

32) Get the spherical Gem and the spell. The spell allows you to open two of
the three chest in this room : Chest 1 = 2 bags of gold, Chest 2 = Bless
potion spell (Increases the power of any potion) Chest 3 = a stamina potion.
(If you are low on stamina, open chest 2 and 3, and cast the Bless potion
spell on the stamina. ,W and drop down.

33) Get near the pillar, drink the Strength potion, and pull the pillar over
to where the three items on the shelf are. Of these three, you only need the
key, the other two items are bonus's. So, push the pillar onto the shelf
with the key, this will either knock the key to the floor, or knock it onto
the pillar. If it lands on the pillar, push the pillar back the wooden shelf
where it started from, push the pillar under this shelf, the shelf will push
the key off! Keep getting the other items until the strength potion wears
off. The key lets you escape from this room. ,W,S. (To the Main passage with
the Gem Lock and the fly in.)

34) Insert the three green gems in the order the shape of the hole is. OK...
By this time you will be running short of space in your rucksack ... it gets
worse! A hint is to drop the Urn, 4*Teleporters, and the two green alcohol
bottles in this room, you will be coming back this way. ,E .

35) Walk so you are a little less than 1 tile away from the moving spikes ..
and jump as best you can, be careful, more spikes appear .. twice. It is a
very tricky room this! If you have a giant jump potion, it will help. ,E

36) Grab the key and, without moving any further, throw the key between the
bars (You cant get past with the key in your possession. Touch the bars, get
the key and walk on ,E .

37) It is advisable to kill the slime from here, using a massacre or the
shurikens. ,N,N,E.

38) Get the spike. You can open the chest which will give you cash but lock
you in. To escape, pull the rack away from the wall, and the key in this
room in the keyhole. Pull the chain that is revealed.,W.

39) Open the chest and get the gauntlet. Press the button to open the hole
and insert the spike in the hole (Pressing the trigger you cant reach, and
unlocking a door). ,S

40) Jump up and touch the brown wall hanging. Move the bucket to stand on
and press the button that was revealed. Open the revealed chest, Get the
meat and gold ,E

41) Get the meat and give this meat, and the meat from the last room to the
mouth on the wall. Get the two bottles. ,S,W and get the transporter. Insert
the key into the keyhole, unbarring your way back. ,E.

42) Pull the lever, which blocks the exits W & E with stone blocks. The
blood and bones should give you a clue that something is amiss here!
Touching the gem on the floor will move the stone blocks, killing you. So,
you have to use one of the bones, or pieces of armour to push the gem out of
harms way, then pick it up ... try it and see! Going North from here is a
bonus room, and need not be done but if you do ,N ..

43) Entering the room north will lock the door behind you. And the mouth
will start a conversation with you. You can throw the food to the mouth,
however it is useless even though he asks for it. The way to escape it to
throw the poison potion (In this room) at the mouth, killing it and giving
gold and XP, and a way out. ,S

44) (From the Guard hall) ,E. Go up the 1st set of stairs, ,N. Touch the 2nd
from the right bar, it will move out of the way, and go and get the wand and
gold. Pull the lever (That unlocks a door in the previous room). Touch the
2nd from the left bar to reveal your escape. (Note : Touching all the other
bars will damage you). ,S

45) Pull the lever once. Push the board over the pit (In the middle) and
pull the lever a further two times. Jump on the board and press the button
(This help in the next room). Go up the 2nd set of steps ,N. Drink the Fire
shield potion and get the gem.,S,S,S,S

46) A Very tricky room so save the game. Press the button. Get onto the
central platform and get the gem. Goto the North edge on the central
platform and wait for the revolving board to move round near you then walk
onto the moving platform, go round with it and go back through the door you
came in.,N,E.

47) Insert the three green gems in the correct order. Go down the stairs.,N
48) Press the button,,W and get the key. ,E and insert the key into the
keyhole.,E, up the stairs and ,N (Ignore the far north door, it is
false).,W.

49) Hold the gauntlet and open the strongbox (The gauntlet protects you from
the acid). Get the cash, shuriken and discard the gauntlet. ,E,N,W.

50) Get the gold, open the strongbox, get the three bags. These bags, you
will notice are closed, and the gold is not recoverable.,E.

51) The bars will drop. There are two ways to get the gold out. a) Drop all
three bags in this room, pull the lever, grab the gold and go E. b) one by
one, from the last room, insert a bag into the small, lead lined casket, and
go east,east (The bars don't drop as the lead shields the eyes view of the
gold.) do this three times.

52) (from side tunnel east of room with the bars.) drink a shot shield
potion.,S (Second door) Run and grab the key, ,N Insert the key in the
keyhole ,N (second door). The other room to the north off this corridor is
used in the puzzle to give you mega-XP and mega-GP!!

53) Open the chest and get the two keys. Now, the three bags of gold you
recovered can be sacrificed to the mouth for three clues, or keep them and
they will give up their gold at a later date. Touch the skull to the west
and press it. (Activates the east teleporter.) Grab the east teleporter.
(The teleporter to the west is bad, and, will take you right back to the 1st
room ... the clues with the gold tell you this.)

54),W,S,S. The platform will start moving, get off it into the central
platform. Get the spell. Goto the south edge of the central platform. Again,
this is tricky, so save the game. As the moving platform moves in front of
you, get on it. As you pass the button, press it and jump to the east
immediately. Again, go to the south of the central platform and get on the
moving platform as it passes you. This time, go through the door that has
been revealed.,N

55) You are now in the maze. All the doors are locked, so use your Unlock
door spell to go around. Beware as you explore, as some rooms have creatures
in. The maze is a 4*4 square of rooms. You must make your way to the top
left (NW) room. When you get there, pull the lever, get the gold and unlock
the door . You can now, go through the door, get the emerald, and proceed as
follows : Otherwise, you can go back through the maze, getting some gold and
other items. (GOTO Point 59)

NOT GOING BACK THROUGH THE MAZE

56) ,W,S,W,W,N,W Get all the gear you need (Four teleporters and the urn)
,S,W,W,W,N. You should now be in the Side Hall (The room that tells you 'you
cannot enter as you are not a captain ,E. You lose all your spells, weapons
and magic when you enter here, so drink all your stamina remaining before
you go in.

57) Drop the urn on the block. Drop the Emerald on the block. Now, drop the
six teleporters in the hole that appears ,E

58) Pull the lever, go onto the blood circle and wait ... you are now in
level 3!

GOING BACK THROUGH THE MAZE

59) (From the maze room with the lever.) ,N,E,N (Beware of the creature)
,N,W Pull the lever, drink the stamina. ,N,N,N,N,E,E,E,E Pull the lever. You
can now get the teleporters to move you around, and eventually go back
through the room with the moving platform back past the crushing blocks and
make your way as with point 56.



                             Cadaver Game Guide
                                Level three

You enter level 3 In the main passage after being transported from level 2.
In this level resides the Spirit of King Wulf. When found, he will ask you
to help free his soul, and in return, he will help you to reach the higher
levels of the castle, and thereafter, kill Dianos.

To do this, you must find the five ingredients to concoct a brew to do this.
The King will tell you more when you get there .....

THE SOLUTION

1) Nothing interesting S (Mind the gap) E.

2) Collect the three stones, Jump and hit your head on the lever. This will
part the bars, giving your escape. Get the other three stones. Descend the
stairs.

3) Move the barrels, and get the bag of stones. Go up the stairs. W

4) Pull lever. Try to dodge the spiders and get the key and shuriken. S. Use
the key in the keyhole. S.

5) Open the chest and get all the contents (Read the book). S.

6) (The king is here) Touch the king (He tells you the first of six orders
which you must follow) collect key, collect candle. N,N,N,E,D,N

7) Insert key in keyhole S,U,W,S,S, pull lever on floor, drop through pit.

8) Collect crown, open chest, get orb, insert key into keyhole, return to
King.

9) Give crown to king, (King eventually gives second order and key), collect
key.

10) N, E, insert key into keyhole, E, E, E, E, W, collect handle, E, N,
collect bottle, read book, W, W, open chest, collect key, S, E, E.

11) Insert key in keyhole, wait till platform descends.

12) N, W, drop candle on one of the blood circles (it should now start to
flicker), N, W

13) pull lever on west wall twice, S, collect bottle, collect candle, drink
bottle with key in it, collect key recover from drunkenness, N

14) open chest, collect two candles, S from lower of two steps, pull lever
(either collect gold or exit as soon as possible, E

15) drop remaining 3 candles on remaining 3 circles till they all flicker
(this will teleport you to here later), W (in north west corner), N

16) Insert handle into empty lever slot, pull lever, E, kill spider, E, step
on four blood circles (transports you to candle room), dispel trap on chest
open chest collect all contents. Return to room with 4 blood circles.

17) W (on lower of two steps) press right hand button only, S, E, open
casket, get key, press button, get gem, N, S.

18) Get herbs, insert key in keyhole, S, N up low steps, W, W through NW
door, N, S through higher step, S, return to King.

19) Drop herbs on font, read message, collect key, N, N, N, E, throw stone
at lever, through gap in bars, W, N, insert key in keyhole.

20) W, collect coins, don’t die, collect gems, W, throw stone onto ramp
until ball falls down hole, cross pits, pull lever, W, open right hand food
safe, eat food, eat chicken, S, E.

21) get rock, search barrels till find meat, collect raw meat, W, S, drop
raw meat on charcoal, eat cooked meat, collect small key, S, W.

22) Insert rock in hole, line up barrels with hole, pull lever, collect
contents of any broken barrels, repeat until all barrels are gone, collect
key, collect rock.

23) Open chest, get all contents, E, E. (you should now be back in the room
with the spider)
24) Cast massacre spell, W, S, open chest, collect twigs, N, E, use twigs to
push key out from inside the bars, collect key.

25) W, S, insert key in keyhole, insert rock in hole, move barrels to find
lever, pull lever, move silver bowl to show key, collect key, N, W.
26) Insert key in keyhole, S, open chest, get potions, move chest to south
wall, stand on chest, throw spare objects onto shelf in order to make the
ball roll round the corner and knock off the barrel. Once this is achieved
search barrel, collect real green flask (the one from the barrel).

27) Insert token into slot, return to King, drop flask on font, listen to
king, collect key.

28) W, S, insert key in keyhole, W, drink red potion (super fast) jump over
spikes, W.

29) Stand on pressure pad, W, jump over spikes, search barrel, collect bag
of stones, open chest, get all, E, S.

30) Push strongbox off platform, open chest, collect gem, drop four gems on
four holes, E.

31) Wait for rock to fall, collect stones, S.

32) Throw stone at lever on west wall, S.

33) S, stand on platform pull higher lever on west wall, do not fall off, S,
S.

34) Climb stairs, open all chests, collect all keys, collect all sacks, drop
through South West hole, pull lever, drop off platform.

35) W, drop five stones down small hole, climb on chest to reach keyhole,
insert key in keyhole, N.

36) Run through room before timer expires, collect as much money as
possible, E, E.

37) Open chest, collect contents, open chest, collect contents, pull lever
three times, pull levers on north walls, N.

38) Pull levers in correct order (right to left), W.

39) Pull lever, W, pull lever, insert key in keyhole, N.

40) Climb on platform, avoid dying, E.

41) Pull lever, climb on platform, E, N.

42) Pull lever on floor, drink strength potion, push board up to the hole in
the west wall, drink super fast, jump pit, collect key, S, pull lever, open
chest, collect key, N, jump pit, insert key in north keyhole, get handle, S,
insert handle in empty lever, pull lever, N.

43) Pull lever on north wall, N.

44) collect all, cast dispel trap on chest, open chest get all, pull lever,
S, E, insert coin in slot, return to king. Put the sack of white powders
onto the font and get the key.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

PART II

1. From the King go E,S, insert the key in the keyhole.

2. E, get small key, E

3. N, kill spider, climb on barrels and search shield to find small key.
Wait till the hole on the wall fires out a rams skull, collect the rams
skull. Climb the stairs to room above.

4. Get wand hidden between chest and stone block. Open chest, get spell, get
casket, get bottle.

5. Dispel trap on casket you have just collected, open and get large key.
Drop red fish casket (red herring). Open casket with Singu Teniel Vitreng
written on it, get read magic spell.

6. Cast read magic on unknown spell. Down, S, use large grey key in keyhole,
E.

7. Drag chest W onto platform, pull lever, wait till platform returns, pull
lever and jump onto platform, you go upstairs.

8. Get wand from under armour, get coins, search pillow to get casket.

9. Cast unlock chest spell onto large chest, get key, get cash and get holy
symbol.

10. Drop down through hole, place wand marked Laguna on far right stone
block, place wand marked Durrigan on far left stone block, W, S.

11. Drop casket with image of key upon it, open casket, insert heavy brass
key, open casket to get large iron key, insert key in keyhole, S.

12. Press button to select first platform, pull lever to set it moving, pull
lever again to stop it, position it to form a step leading to the west of
the room. Keep pressing button to select next platform and repeat process.
The objective is to construct a staircase leading to the room above, when
you have done this climb it.

13. Firstly read book, get lever, drop holy symbol onto stone block, get
wand, get casket. Open the chest and get the two spells. Go downstairs.

14. Cast read language on black book, get book, read book. N.

15. Cast massacre spell to kill gargoyle, collect small kek, kill other
gargoyle (optional), S.

16. Open chest, get giant jump potion, N.

17. Insert handle into far right lever slot, pull lever, N, E.

18. Drop matil wand on centre stone block, casket drops from ceiling, dispel
trap on casket, open and get large key, get three wands from stone blocks,
W, S, E.

18. Drop a bag of stones, or other large item, drink giant jump potion, jump
on object, jump on wooden platform, pull lever, drop down.

19. Use judgement to climb staircase to corridor above.

20. Insert key in keyhole, W.

21. Drop black book down hole by black stone, drop green bottle down hole by
green stone, drop red casket, down hole by red stone, drop rams skull down
hole by yellow stone, get enchant liquid spell that should have appeared.

22. E, down, W, N, W, unlock door using wand, W, N, W.

23. Cast enchant liquid spell on the font.

You will now be given the key to the guard barracks, this section is heavily
populated by monsters and though the puzzles are not too difficult it is
very dangerous. In order to serve the finished potion it will be necessary
to recover the ancient chalice of the Wulfs. This can be found at the end of
this section. With that complete the King should allow you to go on to level
4.

24. Collect the next key. W, insert key in keyhole, W, W.

25. Kill lower goblin with weapon, avoid rocks of upper goblin, N.

26. Kill both gargoyles, get key from behind wooden board, pull lever, S, E.

27. Insert key in keyhole, E, E, N, N, W, S.

28. Climb stairs and kill goblin, avoid rocks from other goblins, get key,
insert key in keyhole,W.

29. Get both keys, kill both gargoyles, W.

30. Insert gold keys in correct keyholes, avoid death, kill volcanoes, N.

31. Search pillow, get key, S.

32. Dispel trap on chest, open chest, get orb and wand.

33. Cast poltergeist spell three times, N, E, S.

34. Get key from centre of room, insert key in keyhole, E, S, E, E, E, N, E,
E, E, E, E, N, W, W, N.

35. You should now be in the north west corner of the Royal Maze, open the
chest (it was moved by the poltergeist spell from the Guards area).

36. Get, chalice, return to King's ghost.

37. Drop chalice on font. Give full chalice to King, get key, N.

38. Drop through pit in centre of room, S, W, insert key in keyhole, W.

39. Climb stairs to Level 4




                             Cadaver Game Guide
                                 Level four

The fourth level of the Castle Wulf was the residential floor of the King.
There are bedrooms, kitchens and libraries. Much of it has become very
bizarre since the fall of the king and a host of demons have taken up
residence here at Dianos's bidding. The aim of the level is to get 4 gold
keys which will allow you to reach level 5.
The first section involves the old bedrooms of King Wulf and the secret
chambers his wife used while carrying on an affair with Lord Carolus. The
objective of this section is simply to get past it. In the next section, the
old Kitchens, the task is to break open a stone ball, this is done using a
combination of objects and puzzles and will reward you with your first Gold
key.
Section 3 is a strange collection of mental puzzles and gambling. This is
where Wulf and Dianos would be found relaxing. One of the Gold keys is
easily attained here, however there are a number of diversionary quests that
should keep you occupied for some time. The final section is the old
Libraries of the Court. The main task is to rebuild the Planetarium, to do
this you must find 5 planets.

A final note on the demons. These ungodly creatures must firstly be made
vulnerable to attack. If there is a red circle in front of them you must
drop a candle within it. If there is no red circle cast a dispel evil spell.

Lets go!

1).Northeast Solar Open the chest, collect the super fast potion and the
read language spell. Walk over the pressure pads, clockwise from the top of
the screen. Collect the unlock door wand which should appear near the chest.
Exit W.

2).Kings Passage Use the unlock door spell, to exit W.

3).Royal Chamber Open the chest and collect dispel evil orb. Exit S.

4).Store Room Open the chest and collect the key. Exit N, W.

5).Nameless Corridor Use key in the keyhole. Exit N.

6).Kings Bedroom Search the pillow, collect casket, pull lever. Exit W.

7).Queens Bedroom Search the first bush, collect the small brass key, open
the chest and collect the unlock chest spell, collect one bottle of wine.
Search the right hand tapestry and press the button. Return to the Store
Room (4)

8).Store Room Exit W.

9).Secret Store Collect the water potion, collect the Rams Skull, open the
chest and collect all four bombs. Drop one bomb and press it, when it blows
up it should reveal a secret door. Exit W.

10).Pit Room Walk carefully around the edge of the pit. Exit S.

11).Queens Shrine Cast unlock chest upon the chest, collect bless potion
spell, the giant jump potion and collect the dispel trap spell. Return to
the Nameless Corridor and exit W.

12).Nameless Corridor (ii) Drink giant jump potion and super fast potion and
jump across the pit and spikes. Exit W. (using the unlock door spell)

13).Guards Search pillow and collect shirikan, open square block on the wall
and collect key. Exit N.

14).Guard Post Drop water potion onto the small chest key to wash away the
poison. Cast dispel trap on the chest, open it, collect the book and the
strength potion. Return to the Kings Bedroom (6)

15). Kings Bedroom Use large key on the keyhole. Exit E.

16).Kings Chapel Drop the skull on the altar and read the book which begins
"At tanume tue vendum....". Open the casket, collect the chest key and open
the grey chest. Collect the two orbs. Drop Finvars Casket of Recharging,
insert Finvars Potion Booster spell, open the casket and collect the
recharged spell. Cast the potion booster spell on the weak strength potion.
Collect the strength potion. Press the triangular button on the south side
of the altar and collect the two candles. Return to the Queens Shrine.

17).Queens Shrine Collect candles, drink strength potion, and pull the altar
back to reveal a hidden button, press the button and return the altar to its
original position. Return to the pit room

18).Pit Room Use a bomb to blow away the hidden door (if you drink superfast
potion you don't need the bomb). Exit W.

19).Trophy Room Search the trophy's mouth, this provides you with a small
note, press the button in the trophy's mouth. Return to the Queens Shrine

20).Queens Shrine Drop bottle of wine on the altar, open the casket that
falls from the ceiling, collect the key. Return to the Trophy Room

21).Trophy Room Insert the key into the lock when the light on the clock is
at the top. Return to the Secret store, search the trophy and press the
button, return to the Trophy Room and press the button in the trophy again,
this will reveal the blocks covering a door. Exit W.

22).North Passage Pull lever, walk through the bars, collect the money bags,
do not collect the one painted with magical runes, collect the key and pull
the lever to reveal a door to the West. Exit W.

23).Bedroom Open the grey chest, collect the magic missile wand, oil flask
and cure poison potion. Search the light and press the secret button that
you find. Search the pillow and collect the small chest key. Cast dispel
trap on the wooden chest and open it, collect the money and shirikan. If you
have any bombs left drop them near where the tapestry was raised. This
should reveal a secret door. Exit W.

24).Secret Room In order to kill the demon cast dispel evil. Then use the
magic missile wands on the demon to kill it, drink super fast and jump
across the pit to collect the bag of holding (increases rucksack capacity).
Return to the Guards.

25).Guards Pull right lever and then left lever. Exit N.

26).Guard Post Unlock West door. Exit W.

27).Northwest Solar Drop any candle into the circle on the floor, this makes
the demon vulnerable, use a magic missile or shirikan to kill the demon.
This is quite difficult so you would be best advised to save the game just
before fighting it. Exit S.

28).Little Passage Exit S.

29).Royal Gaol Pull lever until you can reach the iron chest, drag the chest
free of the bars. Exit S.

30).Cistern Room Exit S.

31).West Hall Exit E.

32).Upper Kitchen Search the grey jars to find a small chest key and collect
the copper bowl Exit E.

33).West Passage Read book and collect the unlock chest spell. Return to the
Royal Gaol.

34).Royal Gaol Cast unlock chest spell on the chest, collect the stones and
the dispel trap spell. return to the West Hall

35).West Hall Exit S.

36).Wulf's View Use the unlock door spell to exit N. Exit N.

37).Pump Room Cast dispel trap on the wooden chest and collect all its
contents and eat the cheeses. Place the copper bowl below the pumps spout,
pump the handle until water appears in the bowl. Take the bowl and return to
the Cistern Room.

38).Cistern Room Unlock the door to the East. Drop the bowl of water onto
the cistern, water should now flow along the pipe. Exit E.

39).Oil Store Place the oil flask below the tap on the barrel, when the
barrel is full, turn the tap and collect the oil flask when it is full.
Return to the Upper Kitchen.

40).Upper Kitchen Drop the full oil flask on the flame. The resulting
fireball destroys part of the shelf allowing the ball to drop and smash.
Inside is a key, collect the key. Return to Wulf's View.

41).Wulf's View Unlock the door to the South using the spell. Exit S

42).Carvers Hall Throw the stones through the bars so the ball pushes the
potion through the bars. Collect the giant jump potion. Return to Wulf's
View and use the potion to recover the key from the platform. Return to the
Carbers hall and use the key in the lock. Exit S.

43).Southwest Hall Drop a candle in the small red circle and then kill the
demon. Exit S.

44).Small Store Use a combination of unlock chest and dispel trap spells to
open the nested chests, collect all the contents and, Exit N and then E.

45).Little Passage Unlock the South door using the grey key.

46).Box Room Pull the lever and then return it to the up position. Exit E.

47).Halbs Delight Slide around the large boxes until a gap is made in front
of the door, one or two of the blocks cannot be moved and the one in front
of the door has a life of its own. Exit N.

48).Inner Passage Use the giant jump potion to reach the wooden shelf,
collect the immortal potion and casket, open the casket and collect the four
tokens. Pull the lever and exit E.

49).South Passage Drink your immortal potion and jump over the spikes pull
the lever to blow them up. Exit S.

50).South Chamber Open the chest, collect the gold key. Slide around the
tiles that spell DIANOS so that they read the same along the other track.
Exit N.

51).Wardens Room Search the thief, he needs an alkali potion to make him
feel well enough to talk to you. Exit S and E by casting unlock door spell.

52).Helms Doom Collect the bottle that restores alkali balance and return to
the Wardens Room. Give the bottle to the thief, he will eventually give you
the combination to escape, 1432. He will then ask you to bring him a poison.
Exit S. then E. then N.

53).Gamblers Den Use the three tokens to gamble on the rotundas. The extreme
right hand one is a low risk low return machine that provides extra tokens.
The middle rotunda is higher risk higher return that also provides green
tokens. The left hand rotunda gambles tokens for potions, money, or an
occasional key. Use the right and middle rotunda to generate as many tokens
as possible then use them in the left hand machine to get potions and a grey
key. There is a magic missile spell hidden behind the stairs. When you are
satisfied or broke exit E.

54).Malladins Pits The four pits lead to four different challenges:

West Pit, The Resting Chamber - use the fertiliser to grow a shoot so that
you can reach the lever, pull it and collect the chest key. Open the chest
and collect all items except the books. Wait until the clock has gone around
three times and a lock will appear by the door. Use the key from the chest
and the bars will disappear. If you missed the time, drink the 'sweat potion'
 (strength) and push the metal bars aside. Wait until the clock has gone
around four times and then unlock the door. Exit N. and collect the
 'fizzy' potion (poison). Follow 'Exit' sequence. Give the poison to the 
thief. Search him, and collect massacre spell. Return to Malladins Pits.

North Pit, Great Pit - collect the gold and follow the 'Exit' sequence.

South Pit, Outer Pit - keep collecting the money sacks, if roots start to
grow in front of the door, leave (the door only unlocks after a certain
amount of time). The roots will eventually block off your exit so be
careful. Collect the dispel trap spell. Exit S. and then S. then follow the
'Exit' sequence. The door only unlocks after a certain amount of time
(after 6 sacks)
JOTD: I've got a better idea. Pick up the dispel trap spell, and drop another
useless item just by the way out. Then, collect as many money bags that you
want, you can still jump on the roots and the exit is still clear.

East Pit, Fire Pit - withstand the fire balls until part of the metal
flooring disappears, drop through and exit S. Collect the three spells and
follow the 'Exit' sequence.

'Exit' sequence - from the Great Pit go E - S - S - S - you will now be in
the Inner Passage, retrace your steps back to Malladins Pits. From Malladins
Pits exit E. then E.

55).Southeast Hall. Cast dispel evil and kill the two demons. Use unlock
door spell to exit N.

56).Learned Hall. Pull the lever and exit W.

57).Symbolists Hall Remember the order of the shaped blocks on the posts.
Exit E. then E.

58).Symbolists Hall (ii) Pull the levers in this order (L = left, R = right)
L R R L. A button should now have appeared on the wall. Press it (the aim of
the puzzle is to arrange the shaped blocks in the same order as those in the
other room. Exit E.

59).Book Store Read the books and note their contents for clues. Read books
several times to see if there is more than one message. Exit W. then W.

60).Symbolists Hall Press the button then exit W.

61).Sealed Chamber Open the chest and collect the planet (Earth) without
pressing any of the buttons, then exit E. then E.

60).Learned Hall Exit N.

61).Learned Hall (ii) Exit E.

62).Quadratica (this is later referred to as the room with square walls) Do
not bother opening the chest. Read all the books, and collect the 'dry
sandy' planet (Chaos). Exit W. then N.

62).Learned Hall (iii) Exit E.

63).Dianos's Library Read all books, keep reading the book on marriage and
funeral customs of the Southlands until a spell appears. Collect the spell.
Search the tapestry and collect the small key that emerges. Exit W. then W.

64).Side Chamber Do not bother with the puzzle in this room unless you feel
like it. It is not essential to completing the game. Exit W.

65.)Nameless Room Open the chest and collect all the contents. Cast the read
magic spell on the unknown spell. Return to the Quadratica.

66).Quadratica position the chest along the north wall, fifth tile from the
left, jump onto it and then jump up, your head should hit a secret panel and
a small white planet should fall out. Collect the planet (this is called the
Moon). Return to the Learned Hall (ii)

67).Learned Hall (ii) You have to set the 4 levers to 4 numbers in any
order. You do this by setting a lever to either +, - or neutral. For example
the number 29 is made by adding 27, subtracting 3 and adding 1. Thus the
levers will be in the following positions 27 - up, 9 - mid, 3 - down and 1 -
up. Use this principal to create the numbers 29, 32, 16 and 7. Once you have
done this the door to the West will unlock. Exit W.

68).Queens Library Cast unlock chest on the chest, collect the planet (Sun).
Exit W.

69).Wisdoms Hall Collect the planet (Red planet) and return to the nameless
room (65) and exit S. to the Upper room

70).Upper Room You should now have 5 planets in your rucksack (Earth, Sun,
Moon, Red and Chaos), these will be dropped through the holes in the floor
to land on spikes in the Planetarium (North of the Queens Library). They
should be dropped through the following holes:

Top - Sun, Left - Red, Right - Moon ,Bottom - Earth

Now return to the Queens Library and exit N. into the Planetarium.

71).Planetarium Because you got the planets in the correct positions, the
globe in the centre has stopped spinning (honestly it was spinning before).
Search the globe, press the hidden switch, collect the two keys and return
to the upper room.

72).Upper Room Drop the 'Chaos' planet through any of the holes and return
to the Planetarium.

73).Planetarium Press the button on the black globe and collect the grey
key. Return to Wisdoms Hall.

74).Wisdoms Hall. Collect all the wooden planks and Exit W.

75).East Passage. This is the final approach to the last room. Use the grey
key you collected from the Planetarium in the keyhole then use the planks to
cross the floor without touching it (it is electrocuted). Exit W.

76).Central Hall In here are three demons. Firstly cast a dispel evil spell.
Then give them everything you've got. Once they are dead insert the four
gold keys into the four keyholes in the order given to you by the thief. 1
is the extreme left hand keyhole and 4 is the right hand one. Once this is
done walk to the centre of the room and go to level 5.



                             Cadaver Game guide
                                 Level five

Level 5. The confrontation.

At last you have reached the final level of castle Wulf. Dianos is waiting
for you in the final room. The aim of the level is to collect the necessary
items for his destruction and to reach that final room. Dianos has left a
profusion of traps and puzzles to stop you. You will need all the skills
that you have gained in the previous levels to succeed, Good luck.

1) .Great Tower Quickly get the marble gem stone and exit East.

2).North Bridge Get the second marble gem stone and find the pressure pad
located close to the south wall. Walk over it to reveal a skull lock. Go and
insert the two marble gems into the skull lock and exit East.

3) .Ward Room Jump up on the posts and get the potion bottles (Do this
quickly as the power gems are damaging your health). Exit East.

4) .Helm’s Bridge Pull the first lever. Go under the wooden block when it
raises. Pull the second lever and run to the east door. Stand as close as
you can get to it and wait, the two flails that appeared will not harm you.
Run back, press the hole and get the flask that appears. Finally, pull the
third lever, wait for a few seconds until the door unlocks then exit East.

5) .Helm’s View Get the Emerald gem then exit East.

6) .Great Chamber Open the chest (Reading the book for clues) and get the
dispel trap scroll and cure poison flask. Go down the stairs.

7a).Cellar Stair Open the chest and collect the mind blast orb and green
gems (the gems you collect are powering up your mind blast spell in
readiness for the final conflict). Exit East then South.

7b).Main Cellar Open chest, collect bless potion spell and urn, return to
Cellar Stair. Place the urn under the steam hammer and pull the lever. The
urn will smash and you should collect an emerald.

For a bit of fun in this room, try putting any garbage items under the
hammer and pulling the lever! Exit East then East.

7c) .Great Cellar Open the chest and you collect the magic missile spells,
but they are a bit of a red herring and almost useless (JOTD: not true!)
. Exit South.

8) .East Cellar Open the chest and pick up the two red potions. As the note
says, you can only pick up one of the black potions. They are both stamina,
one has a single dose of 200 and the other 10 doses of 20. Get the 10 of 20
stamina potion and cast the bless potion spell on it this provides you with
more stamina than casting it on the other potion.
JOTD: you can still drink (without collecting) the 200 stamina potion
 before taking the other one.

Stand on the skull carving and throw the blood flask at the pentangle on the
wall.

9) .Great Chamber You have now been teleported back to the Great chamber.
You must quickly jump for the posts that have the caskets resting on them,
getting the caskets as you go. Open the green casket and get all the gems.
Open the red casket and get the dispel trap spell then exit South.

10) .East Passage STOP! You must now get all the gems, but beware of the
floor, there are four pressure pads that transport you to one of the
confrontations with Dianos ... I’ll leave you to discover which tiles are
the bad ones! Exit South.

11) .The Seperator Avoid touching the black spheres as these will explode
and harm you. Collect the key, pull the lever and use the key in the
keyhole. Return to the Great Chamber. Use strength to pull back the wooden
block from the door. Exit East.

12).Oubliette Search the skull, collect the token and the tigers eye gem,
read the book. Return to The Seperator. Exit South.

13).High Passage Pull the middle lever. Climb the wooden ladder, trigger the
wooden block by standing in the corner. You must avoid the flail, collect
all the green gems and finally the key. Exit South.

14).Axel’s leap Collect the money bag and the red orb. As soon as you go
round the far side of the pit you will trigger the flails. Jump to avoid
them. Exit South.

15).Sea Watch Dispel the trap on the wooden chest, open it and collect the
extra strong spider poison and the money sack. Insert the Key in the keyhole
and exit West.

16).Axel’s Fall Time the moving of the wooden block, and insert the two
emeralds into the eyes of the skull lock. Jump across the central block of
the wooden floor and exit West.

17).Broksons Hall Open the wooden chest and collect the piece of lead and
all the coins. Pull the upper lever and get onto the elevator. Drop the
poison on the floor and the spider should drink it, after a few seconds the
spider should die leaving behind a key. Pull the upper lever and go down to
collect the key. Pull the lower lever to make the bars disappear. Pull the
lower lever on the west wall and climb onto the elevator and go to the upper
level. Use the key in the keyhole and return to the lower floor. Exit West.

18).The Void You cannot collect the flask or money sacks just yet. The exits
to this room located about halfway along the North wall, and at either end
of the West wall. Exit North

19) Dispel trap on the strong box and open it to collect the coins. Collect
the magic shield potion, stand on the strongbox to press the secret panel,
collect the ruby that falls from it. Return to the Void and then exit using
the lower of the West wall doors.

20).The Lord’s View Touch the numbered panels until they are set to 7 4 1,
this should unlock the door to the south. Exit South then South again.

21).Lords Watch Press the two secret panels to collect a red casket (be sure
to read the note) and the two keys. Exit North

22).Side Room Open the chest, and collect what money you can. Return to the
Void and Exit through the upper of the West doors.

23).Great Bridge Insert the two rubies into the first skull lock, then
insert the key into the lock and insert the token into the slot. Exit West.

24).West Ward Collect the amethyst and the green casket. Open the green
casket and collect all the gems. Now drink your strength potion and slide
the wooden block so that you can reach the door and the lever. Pull the
lever and exit North.

25).Magnuss Watch Avoid the steel shots and insert the amethysts into the
appropriate skull lock. You can now open the red casket and collect the
lead. Exit North

26).High Parapet Pull the lever and climb onto the elevator, jump over the
wooden platform with the book on it. Open the chest and collect the stamina
potion. Return to Lords Watch via the Void.

27).The Void Collect the two money sacks and the turquoise water potion.

28).Lords Watch Drop the two lead pieces and Ragnar’s bottle into the bowl.
The bowl should bubble for a while and then reveal two pieces of gold.
Return to Magnus’s Watch.

29).Magnus’s Watch Insert the two pieces of gold into the skull lock. Exit
North and then North again.

30).Inner Watch Collect the key and open the chest. Collect all the green
gems, the two jades , the red casket and the flask of blood. Exit East.

31).Caliban’s View Drop the red casket and return to the Inner Watch

32).Inner Watch Open the green casket and insert one of the jades, return to
Caliban’s View and open the red casket but do not collect the Bloodstone.
Return to the Inner watch and repeat the process with the second jade.

33).Calibans View There should now be two bloodstones on the floor. Collect
the ‘blood’ key and return to the Inner Watch, pull the lever and exit South
to the High Parapet, throw yourself down the pit.

34).South Cellar Pull the lever and face the consequences. Exit North to the
Main Cellar, unlock the door using the blood key and exit West.

35).Calibans Cellar Collect the piece of jet, open the secret panel and
collect the banish scroll (this is to defeat Dianos). Stand on the carved
skull and throw the flask of blood at the pentangle. You will be transported
to Calibans View. Collect the two bloodstones and exit East.

36).Inner Ward Collect the petrify spell, cast this on the turquoise water
potion and collect the turquoise gem that results. Exit North onto the Open
Bridge.

37).Open Bridge Pull lever and exit North then West then descend revealed
stairs.

38) You should now be down stairs. Collect the dispel magic spell. Open the
red casket and collect the second piece of jet. Open the strong box and
collect all the green gems. Return to the Ward Room.

39).Ward Room Cast the dispel magic on either of the power gems. This should
provide you with the final piece of turquoise. Return to the Inner Ward and
exit East.

40).Axel’s Stand Collect the Orb, open the secret panel and collect all the
green gems. Return to the inner ward and descend the stairs.

41).Cellar Stair Place the two red orbs under the hammer (one at a time) and
pull the lever. You should now be able to collect two opals and return to
Axel’s Stand.

42).Axel’s Stand Insert the two opals into the skull lock. Exit East

43).Last Watch Drop the immortal potion, drink it while it is on the floor
and run across the wooden spikes to the South door. Exit South.

44).Last Bridge The three skull locks accept the following gems: from left
to right , turquoise, tigers eye, jet. Insert all six of these gems and exit
South.

45).Guard Post Touch the skull lock and let your energy drain until it
stops, you may then insert the two blood stones. Exit West.

46).Inner Chamber Open the strong box and insert the banish spell and the
orb of Kamul. Drink the Stamina Potion to return all your lost energy from
the previous room. Exit North and Exit West.

47).Dianos’s Lair This is the main chamber where you will confront Dianos,
remember it well. Exit through the middle of the West doors.

48).Great Cellar Collect all the green gems and return via the cellar stairs
to the Last Watch.

49).Last Watch Collect the immortal potion, drink one dose and run across
the spikes to return to the inner chamber.

50).Inner Watch Insert the immortal potion into the grey strong box and
return to Dianos’s lair.

51).Dianos’s Lair Open the grey chest and collect all its contents (banish
spell, immortal potion and mind blast orb). Wait till Dianos appears, cast
the mind blast spell. Drink the immortal potion, approach Dianos and cast
the banish spell on him repeatedly until he blows up. Collect his head and
exit through the middle door.
(JOTD: alternate way to kill him: keep some of the caskets found in the level
insert some magic missile spells in each of them, you can smuggle the spells
into Dianos lair. Dianos can be killed only with a few shots of magic missile)

In the last room your status will be displayed. You have now finished
Cadaver!

This whole series of solutions has outlined the simple ways through the
game. There are several hidden bonuses that can be achieved in all the
levels, including a special way of killing Dianos. These bonuses will
considerably boost your score.

Don't forget ... Another 4 levels of Adventuring can be had by playing
'Cadaver ... The Pay Off'.

Steve Kelly, The Bitmap Brothers
