         
                                FIRST SAMURAI

                            THE COMPLETE SOLUTION


PART 1.                   COURTESY OF ZERO MAGAZINE

LEVEL 1.

Head right until you reach thin bridge of land prior to the second statue. Kick
 downwards,go down hole, kill or avoid stalactite, leg sweep on thin ground 
and drop down hole. Walk immediately right. clout large moving statue as it
comes towards you. Climb and descend tree trunk. Venture right along ground
level and pass over preceding statue by means of jumping onto a tree trunk and
 leaping over. Dodge falling stalactite above blue spike. collect special at far
 right, avoid statue and climb left side of second tree from right, right, grab
 bell and use potion.
 Continue right ( nipping down hole if you feel like a sword and a seeker or
two ) beyond yellow baddies and make use of regeneration pot. Summon your 
friendly neighbourhood Wizard Mage ( by ringing bell ) while standing next to
 fire, which should douse its flame`s. Overhead chop at underside of platform,
collect bell, and descend waterfall. Hack right, wait until dragon stops throwing 
flames before abruptly grabbing special and deftly jumping out of the way.
Slice through scenery and that potion is yours. Jump over fire, leap onto platform 
next to spinning yellow tower ( avoiding mines ), onto platform, onto platform and 
onto tree trunk above gragon. Clamber up, carefully jump left and collect treasure 
if desired, positioning Samurai on the far most right - hand edge of right tree 
trunk. Jump with joystick pulled right with repeated fire presses for flying 
slashes. Hopefully you will land under frog, which can be killed with an over -
 head slice or eight.
Descend leftwards, spring over fire, fend off stalactite, jump to land in protection 
of tree trunks. When sword thrower crouches down ( you may have to climb up slightly 
for this to happen ), skip over him and kill the bast. Jump right from grey hut 
onto platform and slash for a seeker. Right, use pot, slash wall and stand on edge 
of pit. Jump into middle ( to avoid spikes ), then fully left, once you have passed 
second row of spikes on left in order to miss fire. Chop wall, use platforms 
to ascend and once back on level ground, gash ceiling to reveal seeker.
Explore left, slashing ceilings and travelling via teleports for extra treasure,
food,and a special ( in fiery pit ) then return. Use sword to remove ground under 
yellow rocks, drop down onto yellow tower, hurdle left and crouch behind regeneration 
pot. Hack scenery and climb down right hand side of wall, then down again onto 
left side to hack and collect treasure. Up and left we go, and quickly down left 
wall again, avoiding stalactite ( theres food available by using your sword 
against the cave roof - food - up if required ). Walk left, up platforms, ( jump directly 
up to avoid spikes ), left and ring bell to rid yourself of the rocks and hit 
upwards for food. return to previously scaled top platform and wield your sword in the 
general direction of the ceiling to collect another bell. Back left, and a    
special and potion will be waiting for you.
Lower yourself downwards ( don`t jump ) and immediately right, leaping daintily 
across the disintegrating bridge and operate teleport. Left a little, up right via 
platform, trying to get to the top of insect colony where food and a special lie 
( thats a smart bomb below incidentaly ). Cavort over fire using platform, climb up platform 
over second fire, use pot and right, right, right. Ring bell next to waterfall and cross 
bridge to face end of level dragon. Turn around, touch the ground, bagsy no returnsto kill.
simply remain on left hand side of the screen and hack shoot his head every 
time he comes towards you. Don`t get stuck underneath his noddle though, or 
he`ll breath fire on you. No probs.





LEVEL 2.




Firstly, dont get that dagger to your right ( more later ). In lieu, a bit of 
 killing and a little axe collecting would be nice. Saunter right, past first 
tree ( dont slash this to collect a dagger either ), yonder second tree and 
remove the ground under the next visible hut. Down, left, hack ceiling for 
treasure, hack wall, hack at large, moving baddie and cross over him by climbing 
up left side of hut sticking out of the ground and dropping down, then collect 
bell. Back to far right, use bell to destroy rocks, collect special, back left 
again, collect another bell from the same place and back up to ground level 
( via double use of teleport if you like ). Fully right, initiate regeneration 
pot, stand adjacent to fire and ring bell to calm it down a bit. Right, secure 
that special and bell for your own use and back out left past fire.
Stand slightly to the left of the scenic statue in the distance in order to 
jump onto platform, upwards and onto tree. Strike the stalactite and nearby 
ceiling for food. Mount grey wall, take immediate left, use bell and cross 
the bridge. Clout ceiling and pocket the bell. Make your way left through 
maze of tree trunks and spiky blue things ( you can get on edge of trunk with - 
out getting killed by the spiky things ), and climb down last trunk ( dont jump ).
Jump up left into passageway on left, summon that helpful Wizard chappie to 
help with your special collecting. Jump up right into a small cavern for bell 
collecting purposes.
Walk left, treat the regeneration pot to a little useage and yank right on 
the joystick whilst plummeting down the hole next to the yellow pillar. If 
no - one else wants the special, then help yourself and swiftly clamber out 
of right side of pit, and return to where you just saved the game. Ring bell 
to rid yourself of rocks, up steps and teleport. Down, collect bell, up, ring 
bell, take special, up again, get bell behind disintegrating stone blocks, hack 
at wall on left and use potion. This probably isnt the best time to mention it 
but the end of level baddie is easier to kill if you have a dagger or two.
lucky that you saved two earlier then.
Manipulate your way back to the start of the level, help yourself to the two 
daggers, one to your immediate right and the other materialising when the first 
tree to your right is swiped, and return via the potion. Trek left and fall 
left to arrive alongside the maze of blue spiky things. Hurtle over the spikes, 
work the teleport and ring the bell for severe fire dousing purposes. Save your 
position, ready to slaughter the end of level robot. Jump up the provided 
platforms, but remain on the top one, slightly lower than the level of the 
robot. All his shots at you will now miss. Kill him by throwing daggers - 
only throw when he is close, so that all your shots hit and the weapon wont 
run out.





LEVEL 3.




Right, evade blue spiky thing, up steps, avoid dragon breath jumping over 
last visible part of ground bridge, otherwise it will disintegrate. Dodge 
blue spiky thing ( after an initial double spike ) and indoctrine regeneration 
pot. Hurl yourself manically fully right from end of platform into a tree, 
and collect bell. Drop down, wallop ground near to waterfall and teleport. 
Get back to blue spiky thing number 2 and summon Mr Wizzard. Onto stars, 
right, onto top layer of crystals and jump right to eventually obtain a 
yellow bell - type thing. Spring left onto single crystal, drop directly down 
from left - side to the second row, jump right, ring bell, and collect what 
looks suspiciously like a special.
Advance left, fall down at first available opportunity and steal bell from 
branches. Descend for the usual teleporting business. Back at the blue spiky 
thing, its onto the stars, up left, left, ring bell, slash at the end of the 
corridor, get treasure and two specials, down, right, left underground and 
teleport. Back past the blue spike, stone dragon and second blue spike. Cascade 
from edge of platform, pulling sharply in left as you go. Time your way across 
the multitude of blue spiky things, collect bell, right once more and fall 
from edge.
Take the lower of the two left corridors. Another blue spiky thing.You know what 
to do. Have another slash upwards for food, treasure and a dagger, along first 
corridor on right for another special, then left to suitable exit. Keep the dagger, 
ascend the tree trunk and onto yellow spinning tower. It`s sword on ceiling time` for 
food, and head fully right. This time, once past the stone dragon, fall from 
end of platform onto bridge.Left, take upper corridor, carefully over spikes, 
collect special and return left. Take lower corridor. Ring bell by fire, left, 
and teleport.At the end of this level you`ll come across an array of banshees. 
Jump to far right of the screen, move back in left slightly and fire daggers, 
slash forwards and overhead when necessary. Easy as pie.
 



LEVEL 4.




Bounce nimbly onto right platform, annihilate baddie, drop down and liquidate 
rats to give you your sword. Use far right teleport. Stroll in the general 
left direction, killing/jumping over yellow baddies as you go. Ignore first bell, 
jump left onto platform, get bell, jump again and put that special under your 
hat. The yellow baddies will leap to a suicidal death ( and you`ll end up back 
at level one if you fall off ). Left again and teleport at first opportunity.
Jump onto stars, left and fall in between fires. Up left with joystick to clutch 
spectacularly onto the tree trunk and dismount left. That Special ? Pick it up ,
man. Left, yee - haa into gap between flames, vault onto tree trunk, up and 
teleport. Teleport using teleport on left, clang bell and up for another spesh.
Teleport back to starting screen and re - use right teleport. Pinch that bell 
from the far left. And perhaps teleport back again using the far right teleport 
( as opposed to the one in the middle ) while you`re at it. Down hole, ring bell, 
right, right, right, slash wall and get special.
Back to starting screen, use right teleport, jump off far left platform, back 
to level one, go right to level two, collect bell and potion, back to level 
four. Teleport from top left of starting screen, leap over mine, jump away 
from right platform and hit ceiling for food plus dagger. Right, then right 
and ring bell by robot. Stand towards left of screen, faceleft and continuously 
press up and fire for a flying slash, continue doing so, edging slightly away 
each time you think the robot is going to hit you. When you are nearing one 
side of the screen, turn to face the robot, fire the dagger and whilst the 
robot is blocking your great shot, cunningly leap over him, doing a flying 
slash as you go. Then repeat the process until he ( and preferably not you ) 
are dead.




LEVEL 5.

The train level. This level is excrutiatingly easy, so not much to say about 
it, really. Head towards the front of the train, entering the carriarges by 
swiping the cracked sections of the roofs. It`s very easy this level, as i`ve 
just said ( twice ), so make the most of it for searching around grabbing 
bonuses - don`t forget sword to ceiling contact, and remember to have a nosey 
in between the carriages ( you can`t fall through ). There are plenty of 
daggers and axe`s all over the shop as well.




LEVEL 6.


After level five and before level seven comes level six. Jump onto oil drum, 
scrabble up ladder, fall back down to gather daggers and re - ascend. Stand 
around and dispatch a few baddies until your sword power is intact, then plunge 
down to start. Traipse left and hack twice at the broken paving stone. Drop 
down into chasm, position yourself at the edge of the platform and leap upwards, 
cleaving wildly to hopefully render a smart bomb. Get this pronto, bag bell, 
stand on right oil drum, then bound left, fly - slashing as you go, to collect 
your first special and exit stage left.
Onto oil drum and up onto the platform again. Walk to the right side of the 
platform, propel yourself over the gap to surmount the oil drum, latch onto 
the ladder and climb up. Sound the bell for aa starry bridge, left and onto 
smaller platform for another yellow doobrie, and retreat right to previously 
climbed ladder. Negotiate the newly formed bridge onto roof of house, walk left 
and quickly right to end up on lower level of roof, drop into house, down to 
second level, right and lacerate ceiling for your first special. Be wary of 
the blue monster who appears and fires discs at you - he appears throughout 
the level, but his discs can be used against him by hacking, kicking or 
punching them back in his direction. Slash at the ceiling on the top level 
for food and a smart bomb, up via ladder onto roof, right.
When you are beneath the soldier and the food, use an overhead chop to kill 
him and re - chop for food ( by re - hashing ). Right and summon Wizard Mage. 
Grab ladder, set off left, take special, slash at manhole and drop down ( keeping 
joystick held left ) onto platform for another bell. Leap right, across platform, 
across bridge, onto roof, up ladder and left. Invite the Wizard along to help, 
while standing next to what will become a disintegrating house. Get bell. Right, 
drop onto lift and when it`s at it`s highest, jump onto roof. Right and ring bell 
where appropriate. Ignore bridge, drop onto lower level of roof, drop down into 
house. These windows will reveal food if slashed, but ignore them unless you 
are desperate as you should come back later.
Jump over gaps in platform ( in front of pillars ). You`ve deserved that bell 
to your right, and should have no problems getting onto the oil drum and onto 
the roof ( avoiding acid ). Climb bridge on right, right and lift special. Dig 
at broken paving slab back to the left, down ladder onto green roof, chuck 
yourself down hole, stand next to oil drum and ring bell to reach special. 
Traipse left of platform, seeing to those baddies by fly - slashing them at 
close proximity in fear of being grenaded ( polish off one and he`ll leave 
some grenades for your own personal use ). Hit yellow ceiling and pocket bell. 
Revert right, use regeneration pot and pursue stone blocks to the far right. 
Facing the blocks, jump with an overhead slash to reveal another special. Ring 
bell, and when the angels have removed the first block or two, hurdle onto those 
remaining, cannily collecting the other special in the process. The end of level 
nastie is down that man hole - and tragically for you, he is by far and away 
the hardest end of level nastie to kill all game. Firstly, ensure that your energy 
is full. There are three area`s which you can get food from : by slashing at the 
good food sign quite far along to the left, by slashing at the windows in the 
buildings or alternatively in the secret passageway ( about halfway along the 
level, entered through the manhole, or preferably through the other cracked 
paving stone to its left. Get some food then if necessary, down the manhole 
and do the honours behind the pot.
The green monster fires heads at you at regular intervals, but will fire an 
extra head if you hit it with your sword or alternative weapon. Stand directly 
next to it and start slashing until there are five or six heads out, and try to 
kill them with overhead slashes. This and combined frantic fly - swiping are 
your best tactics. If ( and when ) your energy gets very low, jump onto the 
ladder, run away, get some more food and return.......



LEVEL 7.
--------


A light step to the  immediate  right,  bounce  over what looks like a
stick of  celery  (  but  probably  isn't  ),  along  right  (  ignore
retracting platforms ), seize bell, jump  up, slash, walk over special
and return to start ( get the  grenades but use extremely sparingly ).
Left, avoid acid drip, fully  left  (  avoiding  acid ) for food. Back
along, jump up right hand side of  ladder  and right if you need food,
otherwise left. Climb down ladder, quickly slashing when you reach the
bottom for rat killing purposes. It's probably best to scarper here in
preference to standing around getting killed.
Left ( avoiding acid )  and  jump  onto platform.Jump over leeks, left
and jump over pits ( position samurai  so that his front foot is fully
over the platform in order to  make  it  ). Ring bell, croos stars and
fall directly downwards to obtain  another  special. Up via retracting
platform, left across bridge and  use  pot.  Continually hit left hand
side of the stone tablet, this will  move  it  to the right so you can
use it to jump  on  to  the  first  retracting platform  to collect the
special. Left, directly down and  down  again. Right, climb ladder,get
bell and take potion (  go  down  right  to  kill  baddies if the bell
has'nt appeared ).
Head right from the position to  which you are teleported, spring over
celery and go  down  ladder.  Carefully  manoevere  yourself  onto the
ladder below and summon the Wizzard Mage  to  lend a hand or two. Some
stars will appear below the retracting platforms to ease your crossing
of the gap (  climb  up  ladder  before  jumping  ),  but DON'T CROSS.
Instead , go up ladder, along right, up ladder, and right for ages.Get
bell, slash at nearby ceiling for  food  and treasure, return to where
you just rang the bell, stand on platform ( not ladder ) and cross pit
using stars to support you.  Down  steps,  move  stone tablet along by
hitting it until it's under the  projecting platform ( and lashing out
at the large moving statueas it  comes  towards  you ),jump up, and up
again for another special and a bell.
Jump over statue and right. Ring bell  next to water jetty and hack it
when it solidifie's. Slash at  ceiling  to  the right for treasure and
use pot. Go back left, use  stone  tablet  to get onto the platform so
that you can jump over  the  statue,  and  get  bell.Back right to the
second water jetty and ring bell. Slash ice, right, sslash ceiling and
left for end of level nasty number one - a big red dragon's head. He's
easy. Stand at either the left or the  right - hand side of the dragon
and and slash at his head every  time  he come's towards you. To speed
things up, jump around a bit using  fly  slashes to hit him. Don't get
stuck underneath his torso, though, in fear of being fired at. There's
food to be gobbled if  you  jump  and  slash from the first projecting
platform you get to. Right, climb wall, get bell, drop onto the yellow
platform, jump left. Jump up  retracting platforms for another special
and ring bell next to water  jetties,  then hit them when solid. Left,
up retracting platforms, and that's it.....


LEVEL 8.
--------


Right, sock all  passing  windows  for  suitable  refreshment, and the
third group preceeding the soldier for  a yellow object to ring. Right
( do not save position ),  bash  windows for food, right, call Wizard,
ring bell whilst  to  left  of  pillar  underneath  firing gun turret,
right, fetch ball and utilise potion.  Slash windows to your immediate
left for food. The Wizard  should  come  in  handy for blowing up that
doorway with the resulting special coming in double handy.
Right and up the first  lift.  Jump  left  onto  the lower roof, punch
windows and jump via same lift onto the green roof directly right. Use
lift, manically hurling yourself  left  weilding  your sword ceiling -
wards for a bell. Left and up first visible lift. Bound left onto blue
roof, then onto lift which moves up  and down directly over the other.
Jump right when top lift reaches  it's  high  point. Ring bell to calm
the firing down a tad, right  and  use  pot.  Take out cracked part of
platform, sink downwards and  slash  windows.  Say  thank  you for the
special. pounce from right hand side of platform, trundle fully right,
collar the bell and exercise the potion.
Chime bell at end of platform,  tumble  down right, right, and I doubt
anyone else will be  wanting  that  bell  or  potion. Once teleported,
right is the direction you'll be  wanting - over bridge, save position
via second pot and fling yourself  off  the  end  of the roof with the
joystick wrenched rightwards to land  on  the  blue roof. Ring bell in
the vicinity of the force - field,  and hack repeatedly at the crystal
until the barrier breaks.
Right ( don't teleport yet ), up  ladder, up ladder, make off with the
bell and special, slash  at  cracked  part  of  the platform, down and
teleport. Hack left behind the scenery for treasure, and jump and hack
for a special. Ring bell, hit  crystal, right, use pot, slash windows,
right, slash  windows  and  teleport.  Walk  to  right  side  of roof,
carefully get down to lower level  of  roof  and enter house. Slash at
ceilings for food, snitch bell and  withdraw  to roof. Leap from right
hand side of roof onto  middle  platform,  use  pot, ascend ladder and
pinch special.Left to get your  feet  back  on  terra ferma, ring bell
when both force - fields come into  view, hit crystals and and proceed
right. Onto oil drum, onto first retracting platform, left above where
barriers were and cleve ceiling for booty.
To bump off  end  of  level  baddie,  simply  slash  at  it  using the
retracting platforms on left when necessary, avoiding it's shots. It's
very very easy.Complete  level  by  going  up  platforms, jumping onto
projecting scenery to right, and slashing  for two more specials. Back
to top retracting platform, grabbing ladder ( by standing on the right
edge of the top platform,  jump  right  then  quickly  left ). Up. And
left.


LEVEL 9.
--------


Gasp loudly at  the  three  -  speed  parallax  scrolling.  Then treat
yourself to that smartbomb,  jump  left  and heartlessly murder enough
baddie's to enable you to swipe bell, and plunge left. Depart right as
far as poss to pocket three  specials. Scale right side of third-from-
right pole ( jump in order  to  clutch  to  it ), jump right onto next
platform, down and that special is  your's.  Up ( by vaulting left out
of cabin and abruptly pulling right on the joystick to grab outside of
the ladder ), and up again. Cavort  right, slash ceiling and down onto
ground level. Get special  on  left  and  at  far  right ( slashing at
ceilings for food ). Climb first  pillar  from right, reach smart bomb
and drop down to collect special. Up right side of pillar again, hurry
onto shorter platform, slash up left for another special, collect, and
up and down other side back to ground level. Up into cabin on left and
continue upwards as far as possible, collecting special on the way.
Continue up by using the tower to  the leftand jumping between the two
when necessary, slashing ceiling and  video camera's when appropriate.
Following the  above  information  should  get  you  to  a  horizontal
platform with a bell and  the  nine  required specials ( and hopefully
enough energy ). There  are  plenty  more  food and specials scattered
about it if you can be bothered  to  locate  them ( i couldn't ). Move
right until a force-field  is  reached  and  ring  that bell. Hack the
remaining force-field once,  kill  the  resulting  baddie, hack again,
kill, and so on. You can abandon this  part to find food if you really
muck it up. And thats just about the size of the level.


LEVEL 10.
---------


Left, apprehend smart bomb, left,  nab  special, right, lay your hands
on the bell, right, hop onto  potted  plant, thrust joystick up again,
grab ladder on left and  heroically  clamber  out.  Right for age's to
abduct another special, and back left  again and cross gap. Left, jump
onto shortest brown barrel,  leap  left,  left  again,  left again and
slash at grey ceiling for a  little  something  to put behind your ear
for later. Drop directly down  and  slash  onto second ground level of
level and show your weapon to the grey thing for a smart bomb.
Walk right over barrels, grab ladder and climb up. Right, up steps and
left into black room with computers  in.  Project yourself to climb up
ladder, enter house, hit the ceiling to purloin food and special. Walk
down ladder, left along  grey  platform,  jump  and  slash for another
special. Left onto brown  ledge's,  hooraying, truncating for treasure
and food.
Up ladder, hail Wizard when you  can,  go no further right, claim that
bell you just lapsed and  ascend.  Left,  jump onto gray platforms and
slash twice at end  ceiling  for  a  light  snack  and a special. Back
right, up twinkling stars and right.  Watch  out for the blue baddie's
who blow deadly rings at you -  they deserve nothing more than instant
death as soon as they appear. Continue  along the platform and lob our
hero off the end. Right, onto small grey platform and onto ladder, up,
and up ladder on level above.
Left, up steps and up ladder. Left  as  far as feasible ( slashing for
treasure ), up ladder, right,  onto  potted  plant, get smart bomb and
get special. Right, past chequered scenery, get lamp, hit scenery in a
variety of shown places, back to  either  side of chequered part, ring
bell and kill  the  end-of-level  nastie-possibly  the  easiest end of
level nastie to kill in the whole game.


                                THE END

