




                              THE NEW ZEALAND STORY

     Typed in by Parasite.


     INTRODUCTION
     New Zealand is a peaceful place to live - if youre a kiwi, particually
     in the Aukland zoo - Tiki is as happy as can be.
     Trouble turns up in the guise of psychotic walrus who has an enormous
     appetite for fresh Kiwi and kidnaps Tiki and his relatives to stock
     the larder.
     The walrus hides his captives around the island in 20 hazardous
     locations and our hero escapes and sets about rescuing his buddies.
     Watch the feathers fly as Tiki escapes his plan, for the walrus has
     some very strange companions and their out for blood.

     GAMEPLAY
     You control Tiki the kiwi in his search for the release of his
     kidnapped friends. Initially you are armed with just a bow and arrow,
     but occasionally when you kill an enemy, they drop an item which you
     can retrieve and use yourself. There are many differant types of items
     which you must discover yourself, but they vary from extra weapons to
     temporary invunrability pills.
     Kiwis cannot fly and you are no exception, however you get around this
     by knocking/shooting creatures off their balloons, which you can then
     commandeer.
     Suprisingly kiwis cannot breathe underwater either, so you must be
     careful if you go swimming. Your oxygen level is shown on the screen,
     so make sure you don't drown.
     Shooting water from your mouth replenishes oxygen, and can be used to
     pot your adverseries.
     In earlier levels, you will be shown arrows on the background which
     indicate the direction you must go to release the captured kiwi , but
     beware of certain stages, releasing your captured friend alerts the
     big guardian creature of that level, and you must first find a way of
     defeating it before progressing to the next level.
     HINT: Yuo must allow yourself to be swallowed by the whale so you can
     destroy him from inside.

     STATUS & SCORING:
     On the bottom of the screen is the players remaining lives, the score
     and an O2  oxygen meter which decreases while the player is in the
     water.
     The game finishes when the players lives are used up, or the game is
     completed.
     For each special item which is collected you will get 1000 points.
     Fruits range between 300 nad 8000 points. For each enemy which is
     killed the score ranges between 100 and 500 points, and the big boss
     characters are worth 10000, 20000, 30000, 40000, and 50000 points.

     HINTS & TIPS:
     When in water, oxygen can be replenished by raising Tikis head above
     the water - than spit by pressing fire if you want to gain oxygen
     quickly.
     Steal balloons by jumping on them while the baddie is still on ,
     pushing him off.
     After a lot of practice, playing skills can be improved considrably.
     Use the duck balloon when you need speed.



