	
	              (\/)iNiSTRY PROUDLY PRESENTS
	                               
                                DOCS FOR
		     ------------------------------
		     NICK FALDO'S CHAMPIONSHIP GOLF
		     ------------------------------
		       TYPED BY BATHORY/MINISTRY.



 GAMEPLAY INSTRUCTIONS
 ---------------------

 Please read the gameplay instructions carefully. We recommend that you
 practice before competing and then you will have the necessary skills to 
 enjoy fully NICK FALDO'S CHAMPIONSHIP GOLF.


 Loading instructions
 --------------------

 To avoid virus infection, switch off the computer for 30 seconds before 
 loading and always keep your game disks write protected, unless saving
 a game.

 Insert disk 1 in DF0 and switch on the computer. The game will now load. 
 Insert other disks when instructed by the computer.

 
 The option screen
 -----------------

 When the game has loaded you are presented with the game credits and
 title screens. To access the game's main option screen press the left 
 mouse button. You will then be presented with the following options:

		
		COACHING
		LOAD GAME
		A ROUND OF GOLF

 Please note: at any time while coaching or during a round of golf you can
 quit back to the game's title screens by pressing the ESC key.


 Coaching
 --------

 The coaching sessions allow the player to practice skills on particular 
 hazards that will appear during a full game. When you select a hazard
 to play Nick Faldo appears and gives you instructions on what you are
 expected to do. For further advice on how you can attempt the shot, 
 press the left mouse button when the pointer is placed over the Nick
 icon. The hazards you can practice are as follow:


	ALL SESSIONS - Practice all those listed below
 	BUNKER PLAY
	WATER HAZARDS
	PUTTING
	FADE + DRAW (See below for details)
 	WINDY CONDIITONS

 LOAD GAME: 
 ----------

 This option allows you to load a previously saved game from disk. 
 When clicking on the box a new menu appears displaying the loaded games 
 available. Click on the saved game of your choice and it will load 
 automatically and resume from where the game was saved. If you have not
 previously saved a game, then these files wil lbe displayed as 
 'Empty Slots'.


 A ROUND OF GOLF
 ---------------

 To play a round of golf go to the main option screen and select the bottom
 option titled A ROUND OF GOLF

 This will take you to the ROUND OF GOLF options screen. On this screen 
 you can customise the kind of game you will be playing. Options are
 as follow:

	STROKE PLAY
	MATCH PLAY
	COURSE
	SEASON
	CONTINUE


 STROKE PLAY
 -----------

 The object of the stroke play is to complete a round of course in the
 fewest strokes possible. The winner is the competitor who completes the
 course in the fewest strokes. You click on the appropriate number for 
 a 1-4 player stroke play competition. The box you have chosen will be 
 highlighted. The order of play at the beginning of the game is the order 
 the players were selected from the roster. Shots thereafter are played
 furthest away from the hole. Players not on the green are always classed
 as being further away than those on the green. The order of play on 
 subsequent holes is played in order of honor (winner of last hole first..
 loser last).


 MATCH PLAY
 ----------

 In match play, a hole is won by the side/person which holes its ball in
 the fewest strokes. A match consists in a full round of golf (18 holes)
 and is won by the side which is leading by a number of holes greater
 than the number remaining to be played.

 If the teams are equal at the eighteenth hole, the game goes to sudden 
 death (starting with hole 1).

 1X1 is a one on one competition and 2X2 is a competition between 2
 teams of 2 golfers.

 The order of play works in the same fashion as in stroke play except
 for the fact that a player can swap to his team mate to play first at
 any time (explained over).


 COURSE
 ------ 
 
 Lets you select which course to play. There are 2 courses supplied 
 with NFCG. Course 1 is selected by left-clicking on the "1" icon, 
 course 2 is selected by left-clicking on the "2" icon.

 
 SEASON
 ------

 Allows you to select which season to play in. The different seasons 
 affect the amount of winf you will have to contend with and how the
 ball will behave on the ground due to the weather conditions. 
 The seasons are as follows:

	SPRING: Weak wind, wet ground (ball bounces less)
	SUMMER: Medium wind, medium ground
	WINTER: Strong wind, hard ground
	CONTINUE: Left-click on this icon to continue to the player
		  selection screen.


 PLAYER SELECTION
 ----------------

 The player selection screen is used to choose who is playing. There 
 are 8 human players who can play. To select one, click on the 
 relevant Human number icon. Repeat this procedure to add more players.

 To change the player's name, left-click on DELETE, tehn left-click on
 the player whose name you want to change. To enter a new name, simply
 type it on the keyboard and press RETURN.

 To select a computer opponent, left-click on the relevant opponent
 icon. The players at the top of the screen are harder to beat than those
 at the bottom of the screen. NICK FALDO IS THE ULTIMATE CHALLENGE..
 NUMBER 1 AT THE TOP OF THE SCREEN.

 Left-click on CANCEL to remove mistakes, left-click on DONE to 
 progress to the CLUB SELECTION screen.


 CLUB SELECTION
 --------------
 
 The club selection screen is used to select which club you prefer.

 Select 13 clubs by left-clicking on the name of the clubs. The
 putter is provided automatically. The red bar next to the club 
 represents the "double-click zone" (explained later).
 Basically, the shorter th ered bar, the harder it is to hit a ball 
 straight with that club. At first therefore, choose the clubs 
 with the longer bars.

 As you play more the lenghth of these bars will increase. 
 Therefore the more you play the easier it gets. However, as you
 improve so does the standard ofyour competition..just like the 
 real thing.

 You are able to choose which caddie will accompagny you around
 the course. Each caddie will give different comments/advice as
 you progress, including sarcastic comments for poor play.


 MULLIGAN OPTION
 ---------------

 You are also able to select whether you wish to play in AMATEUR
 or PROFESSIONAL mode. In amateur mode the double-click zone is always
 proportionally larger than in the professional mode. Also in Amateur
 you have a MULLIGAN option. This allows you to retake a shot if you
 fail on your first attempt, effectively letting you learn how to
 take shots so you can go on to play in PROFESSIONAL mode. After a 
 shot is taken, 2 boxes will appear and you will be asked if you
 want to play from the NEW or OLD position. Slecting the OLD will
 result in your being able to MULLICAN and take the shot again.
 Selecting NEW puts you on to your new position so you can proceed
 with your next stroke.

 When you have selected your clubs and chosen your Caddy, click on
 the "DONE" icon in the top right corner to progress to the first 
 tee.

 To help you choose your clubs, here is a list of the clubs and the
 distance they will hit the ball:

 	1 WOOD - 275 YARDS
 	2 WOOD - 260 YARDS
 	3 WOOD - 250 YARDS
	4 WOOD - 235 YARDS
	5 WOOD - 215 YARDS
	1 IRON - 235 YARDS
	2 IRON - 220 YARDS
	3 IRON - 205 YARDS
	4 IRON - 195 YARDS
	5 IRON - 185 YARDS
	6 IRON - 172 YARDS
	7 IRON - 160 YARDS
	8 IRON - 148 YARDS
	9 IRON - 135 YARDS
	PITCHING WEDGE - 120 YARDS
	SAND WEDGE - 90 YARDS

 These distances are based on the ball being hit cleanly from a tee, 
 landing and rolling on a fairway with no wind using normal power in
 good summer conditions by a professional golfer.

 Please note: if you wish you can take less than 13 clubs onto the 
 course if you feel confident enough.


 THE GAME SCREEN
 --------------- 
 
 In the top left corner of the screen is the CONTROLLER icon. Press
 F1 to change between Mouse and Joystick. Mouse is the default 
 setting and is the recommended method of playing NICK FALDO'S
 CHAMPIONSHIP GOLF.


 GOLFER DIRECTION
 ----------------
 
 To the right of this are the CHANGE DIRECTION icons. These are displayed
 as 2 directions arrows, one facing to the left and one facing to the 
 right. Click to turn the golfer in the chosen direction by a few 
 degrees each time. Repeat as required to rotate the golfer's 
 viewpoint.


 DISTANCE TO PIN
 ---------------
 
 At the top center of the screen between the golfer direction arrows
 is the DISTANCE TO PIN counter. This gives you the distance between 
 your golfer and the pin in yards. In the top right corner of the
 screen is the number of strokes that this golfer has played on this
 hole.

 
 SWAP PLAYER (Match play only)
 -----------------------------
 
 When playing in a team Match play competition, and extra icon appears
 in the top-right hand corner of the screen. It is displayed as 2 
 rotating arrows, and allows you to swap which one of your players
 is to take the next shot. When pressed, the other player in your
 team ill appear ready to take the shot.

 
 SHOT POWER
 ----------
 
 In left hand corner is the "SHOT POWER SELECTOR". This is displayed 
 as a vertical bar with increments from 0% to 100%. Click on the bar
 at a certain position to select the power of each shot at that point.
 Alternatively, holding the left mouse button down and moving up and 
 down over the icon also selects the power.
 
 
 BALL SPIN
 ---------
 
 A the bottom right of the screen. The ball spin option is composed of
 2 icons. The top icon selects back or top spin. This determines how
 far the ball will roll when it lands; top spin causes the ball to
 roll further and back spin reduces distance. This is displayed
 as a horizontal bar. Over the bar is marker which looks like a golf
 ball in the center of cross-hairs. Move the marker left for back spin
 or right for top spin. Leaving the marker in the center will result
 in a standard shot being taken.
 
 
 DRAW OR FADE
 ------------
 
 At the bottom right of the screen. Below this is the stance selector.
 Click on the left arrow to move your left foot back. Click again to
 move back further. This OPENS your stance and makes the ball curve to 
 right when hit, creating what called a FADE. Click on the right arrow
 to move your right foot back and CLOSE your stance. This causes the 
 ball to curve to the left and is called a DRAW. These features allow
 the player to curve the ball around obstacles such as foliage and
 trees which may obtruct the view of the hole.
 
 
 SHOT DIRECTION
 --------------
 
 In the center of the screen is the direction icon. This is displayed 
 as a small cross-hair and indicated the direction of the ball if a 
 perfect shot is played. The direction is chosen by placing your pointer
 anywhere on the game screen. The cross hair will then be placed in the
 position which will be the direction you will be attempting to place
 your shot.
 
 
 CLUB SELECTION
 --------------
 
 A pull-out menu. To the left of the screen is the CLUB SELECTION panel.
 This is used to select which club to take for the next shot. Move the
 pointer to this side of the screen and it will appear. Click on a 
 club to select it for play. The bar at the bottom of the panel 
 represents the red bar on the club selection screen. The shorter the bar
 the harder the club is to use.
 
 
 SAVE GAME
 ---------
 
 Click on save to bring up the save game options. A box similar to the
 one for loading a save game will appear. Click on one of the empty
 slot boxes and type the name you wish to save the game under. When you
 have done this press return and then click on the CONTINUE box and the
 game will now be saved to disk. You can now continue playing the game
 from this point or turn off and re-load to this position at a later
 date.
 
 
 INFORMATION PANEL
 -----------------
 
 A pull out menu. To the right of the screen is the information panel.
 Move the pointer to this side of the screen and it will appear
 automatically. This advises you on:
 
 
 BALL LIE
 --------
 
 At the top of the panel is the BALL LIE indicator. This icon is very 
 important as it displays the terrain on which your ball is currently
 positioned (rough, fairway, sand...). This is very important because
 where the ball is positioned affects the choice of the club to be
 used. For example a low iron is needed in very rough terrain; a 
 sand wedge is needed for bunker play.
 
 
 WIND
 ----
 
 Just below the ball lie indicator is the wind indicator. An arrow 
 shows the direction of the wind and the size of the arrow indicates how
 strong it is, the larger the arrow, the stronger the wind.
 
 NOTE: this only indicates the wind direction/strength overall. To see
 how the wind affects different parts of the entire hole, see below,
 under 'Course Map'.
 
 
 COURSE MAP
 ----------
 
 Below this is the course map. This shows an overhead view of each hole.
 Below the map, the length of the hole is given plus the par of the hole.
 
 NOTE: You always face the pin after your first shot. Click on the map 
 to show the localised wind. This is important because there may be small
 gusts blowing even if there is no predominant wind.
 
 
 PLAYING A SHOT
 --------------
 
 To play a shot, select the club you want to use. Move the shot
 direction icon to where you want the ball to go and change any of the
 above mentioned settings to your preference.
 
 To hit the ball, move the mouse pointer to the buttom of the golfer
 sprite until it changes into a curved arrow. Left click to initiate
 the shot.
 
 Once this is done, a SWING ICON will appear where the power indicator
 used to be. This is split into 2 zones. First - the WRIST SNAP area.
 Click to add an extra 10% power to your shot. A W appears if this
 is succesful. However please note that breaking the wrist is risky.
 Attempting to do so, but failing results in a club dexterity penalty.
 This means your shot bar will be decreased in size resulting in your
 double click zone being reduced in size (described below). Therefore 
 the wrist snap should only be attempted by experienced players.
 
 Secondly is the DOUBLE CLICK area. This zone varies in length depending
 on which club is used, click twice inside the zone ensures that the
 flight of the ball is true. Miss the beginning of the zaone will result 
 in a HOOK and the ball flying to the left. Miss the second click will
 result in a SLICE and the ball flying off to the right. Miss both clicks
 will result in a MIS HIT.
 
 Repeat this procedure until you reach the green, each time checking for
 the position of your ball on the map and the lie of the ball so that you 
 use the best possible club selection for that all important next shot.
 
 
 PUTTING
 -------
 
 When using the putter the POWER icon and SWING icon are replaced by a 
 single icon representing the strength of the putt. Move the pointer to
 the golfer's feet so it changes to a curved arrow and left-click. The
 power wil start to increase. Click again to stop it and the putt will
 be attempted.
 
 When on the green you are given the aid of a grid that helps to show
 the undulation of the green. Use the curvature of the green for 
 accurate putting.
 
 
 BUNKER PLAY
 -----------
 
 When in the bunker you need the following combinations of club/stance 
 depending on the lie of the ball:
 
 	1 - Ball resting on top of sand
 	    A normal stance is needed and a 6 iron or higher should be
 	    used.
 	    
  	2 - Ball partically buried
  	    An open stance should be used and the club to use is the
	    sand wedge

	3 - Plugged ball
	    Close your stance, use top spin and the club to use is again
	    the sand wedge
	    
	    	
 THE SCORE CARD
 --------------
 
 After each hole has been completed by all players the score card is
 displayed. This shows you how many shots taken to reach the hole played
 against how many it should have taken - PAR (displayed to the left of
 the player scores). At the bottom of the card is the total shots played
 and to the left is the total par for the course.
 
 The card displays the current nine holes you are playing. To see the
 other nine holes click the rotating arrow symbol in the top-right
 hand corner of the score card. 
 
 
 CHAMPIONSHIP COURSE DISKS
 -------------------------
 
 Grandslam will be developing disks of World Famous Championship
 Courses for use with Nick Faldo's Championship Golf. These will be
 available to order.

