

      
                     Space Quest II -- Vohaul's Revenge
                     (c) Copyright Sierra On-Line, Inc.

                      (The Solution) -- Revision 1.01
                         Written by:  Keith Miller


        The following hints are only from what I have gathered playing
    Space Quest II.  If you have anything you would like to add to this
    hint sheet, please contact me via BBS/E-Mail on the BBS' listed at
    the end of this file.  Thank you!





    (Starting Off...)

      First of all, you start the game off cleaning up the construction
     mess from the space bay.  You watch will beep.  LOOK at WATCH.
     Don't worry about the broom.  PRESS C.  After the man is finished
     talking, PRESS C again.

     To get out of the Space Bay, just walk up the walls until you are
     in the circle on the ceiling.


    (Decontamination)

     When you are 'whisked away' into the airlock, you are going to be
    decontaminated.  After that, walk over to the hangers and GET your
    SUIT, or WEAR the SUIT.  Then go over to the next to the last
    locker and OPEN the LOCKER.  GET the SUPPORTER (Jock Strap) and GET
    the PUZZLE (I don't think you have an important use for the puzzle
    here.)  Walk over to the next screen.

    
    (It's About Time!)

     The Boss will yell at you now.  When he's yelling, he'll tell you
    to go to the shuttle that just landed and clean up someones barf.
    To get there, get on the platform in the upper-left hand corner of
    the first floor.  This platform will take you to the Shuttle Level.
    Walk inside of the shuttle.  It'll automatically take you over to 
    the completed Space Bay.

    
    (It's a Dirty Job, but Someone has to do it!)
 
     Don't worry about messing with the hose or the gas tank.  You will
    not gain points by doing so, just useless information.  You should
    just walk right into the shuttle.  You should get beaten up by two
    guys, then taken to Vohaul.


    (Not now, I've got a headache...)

     Vohaul will tell you about the salesmen he threatens to put on
    Earth.  Nothing he says is useful, so you can just sit back.  After
    he is done lecturing you, he will have two of his men fly you down
    to Xenon.  When you arrive on Xenon, you will be transported on a
    Air Car.


    (Uh-oh, better get Maaco!)

     During the trip, the Car will run out of gas, therefore causing a
    wreck.  You will be the only one to survive.  The first thing you
    should do now is PRESS the BUTTON.  I think this turns off the
    homing device.  There are mushrooms on the screen to the right, but
    I have no idea what to do with them. There is a trap door on the
    right hand side of the screen.  It can be found by locating the
    square with dotted sides on the ground.   Just don't step in the
    middle of this square.  Take the path on the Upper-left hand corner
    of the screen.


    (Catch me, I'm falling...)

     About 5 seconds after you reach this screen, you should hear some
    distinct sounds.  Walk to the screen to the right.  When you get
    there, there will be a pink man hanging upside down with a rope tied
    to his foot.  Get in front of the creature and UNTIE the ROPE. After
    the creature is released, he will run off.  Let him go, you aren't
    suspossed to catch him.

     
    (Check the Mail...)
 
     Now that you've done your good deed for the day, you can go order
    the thing you've always wanted, the Terrion Beast Mating Whistle. To
    do this, you will have to walk one screen to the left.  From here,
    you need to climb up the path and then go left.  Right in front of
    you will be the mailbox.  Walk over to it and INSERT FROM INTO SLOT.
    It will shake and make some noises.  Then the Whistle will come out.
    GET the WHISTLE.


    (The Berries...)

     The next thing you will have to do is get the berries.  You need to
    walk one screen to the right.  Walk down the path, then go one screen
    to the left.  Go up one screen.  The pink monster you had rescued will
    be picking berries.  The only thing you have to do that the monster
    didn't, is to make it through the maze.  After you have done that, get
    in front of the Berry Bushes and PICK the BERRIES.  Then you have to
    walk through the maze again.

 
    (The Swamp...)

     Now it's time to go swimming.  You need to go to the swamp.  You will
    have to go down one screen from the berry bushes.  Walk over the the
    four balls on the ground.  Don't get too close.  Type GET SPORE.
    Go right one screen.  Climb up the path and go right.  The pink guy
    will be there again.  He's rubbing the berries on his body, that's what
    you should do.  So, RUB BERRIES ON your BODY.  Then just walk into the
    swamp.  The monster will still come after you, but don't worry about
    him.  It'll spit you out.  When you are on the second screen of the
    swamp (The screen with no shores), you have to do something very
    important.  Get in the middle of the screen.  Then go straight up.  If
    the game hasn't told you that you have to start treading water, then
    swim around that area until it tells you to.  When you are swimming,
    HOLD you BREATH AND DIVE.  Now you're under water.  Follow the tunnels
    until you get up into the cave.  In that cave will be a gem.  So GET
    the GEM.  Now swim back out and get to shore (not the one to the left,
    but to the right.  There's two shores)


    (TIMBER!)
   
     There's a canyon on this bridge without a bridge crossing it.  So you
    will have to make one.  Climb the tree closest to the canyon (the one
    without branches or leaves.)  Look inside of the tree.  The Tree should
    break in half and fall across the bridge.  Tah-Dah!  Now you have a
    bridge.  Crawl Across it.

    
    (Another Boobie Trap...)

     This time you're the bait for someone.  There is a boobie trap on the
    screen to the right, so go right.  One of the trees on the right side
    has a boobie trap on it.  Just walk around one of the trees until you're
    taken away.  

         
    (I thought my sister was ugly...)

     Now you should be locked up in the cage.  The monster is getting ready
    to cook you.  Try TALK TO MONSTER.  If he doesn't come then, just wait
    until he does.  When he gets close to the cage, THROW the SPORE.  The
    Spore will explode and kill the monster.  Search the Monster. You should
    get a key.  Now get the rope sitting on the boulder next to the cage.
    Go back to the screen where the canyon and your bridge is (up, left,
    left.)


    (King Kong Lives Again...)

     Walk in front of the log laying across the canyon and CRAWL ON LOG.
    When you are in the middle of the log, TIE ROPE TO the LOG.  CLIMB
    DOWN the ROPE.  Get all the way to the bottom and stop when your feet
    are at the end of the rope.  Type SWING.  Keep swinging until the
    monster swings its arm out at you.  Then when you are over the other
    side, press F6 to let go.  Walk into the cave.

  
    (Yet another Boobie Trap...)

     USE the GEM to light up the cave.  Follow the path until you fall
    down the trap door.  When you have sucessfully completed your fall,
    GET the GEM, which had fallen out of your hand.  Go down a screen.
    This is the Pink People's Kingdom.  The King of the Pink People will
    tell you the password.  So walk over to the pink people and type WORD.
    They will move the rock, revealing a secret passage.  Climb down the 
    ladder.  When you are down there, type PUT GEM IN MOUTH.  Now I can't
    remember where to go, but find your way out.  When you get out, you
    will be in a cave with water.  Follow the stream until you are at the
    screen with the two tunnles at the top.  Take the one on the right.
    You will then come out of a hole in the side of a moutain and land in
    MORE water!

    (What an ugly statue...)

     Now you need to get out of the water and go one screen to the right.
    BLOW the WHISTLE.  When the beast gets out, go back to the screen on
    the left and go back to the right.  There will be a big hole.  When
    you get under the hole, EXAMINE the ROCKS.  Then GET the ROCK.  Now 
    keep going up.

    (The Landing Pad)
     
     Hide behind the bush.  Wait for the guard to walk behind one of the
    posts and then run behind another bush.  Then wait until he goes back
    behind another post then run under the platform.  The Elevator is on
    the post on the right.  Insert the Keycard and enter the elevator.
    The elevator will take you back to the ship you landed on.  The hatch
    for the ship is somewhere on the back.  OPEN the HATCH and ENTER the
    SHIP.  I forgot how to fly the thing, but it won't take long to figure
    out.  When you are flying, Vohaul will set a tractor beam on you and
    pull you back to his asteroid.  When you land in his asteroid, get out
    and walk to the right.
 
    (I smell a rat...)

     You should now be on a screen with an elevator.  Get into the elevator
    and PRESS TWO (It doesn't accept numerals.)  I can't quite remember the
    different rooms on each level, but I will tell you what I do know:
     1) When you come across the bathrooms, it doesn't matter which door you
        go through.
     2) When you are in the bathroom, the only thing you can GET is the TOILET
        PAPER.
     3) From what I know, there is no way to release the monsters held inside
        of the cells on certain levels.
     4) Only ONE monster will come out of it's cage w/o anyone opening the 
        door.  Be sure not to let that monster kiss you (The Punishment will
        not happen away, but at a very bad time in the game.
     5) Enter each door you come across.  You can type: Examine Room and
        Search Room to find the objects inside of each.  You will need the 
        waste basket that is in one of the rooms.

     After you have completed your search of each of the levels, you need to 
    go back up to level one.  When you are there, walk over to the screen 
    where your ship is parked.  Walk down the middle aisle.  When you are down
    there, two walls will pop out from the floor/ceiling, trapping you in a
    small area.  The floor will start moving, a hole will appear containing
    acid.  When the end of the floor is in the middle of the area, type USE
    PLUNGER ON WALL.  You will stick to the wall until the floor has closed 
    again.  GET OFF THE PLUNGER.  GET the PLUNGER.  Now, get under one of the 
    sprinklers (You can find one by typing LOOK UP in each section of that 
    screen.)  When you are under one, DROP BASKET ON FLOOR, PUT the TOILET
    PAPER IN the BASKET.  LIGHT the PAPER.  Now the sprinklers should go off
    and short circuit the wallbots on the screens to the left and right.  Walk
    to the right.  Don't stop, just walk into the wall on the far right.  A
    door revealing Vohaul's Chamber will come into view.  Enter this room and
    walk up the path leading to Vohaul.  Vohaul will then set off the 
    Miniturizer, with it's target being you.  Don't worry, this will no kill 
    you.  When it has completed it's mission, It'll put you into a large jar.
    To get out, you'll have to USE the GLASS CUTTERS that you found in one of
    the janitorial rooms in the asteroid.  After you are out, ENTER the VENT 
    on the right wall.  Vohaul's life support system will be inside the vent.
    You need to shut it off.  You need to PULL the SWITCH on the back wall.
    After you have done that, ENTER the VENT.  Vohaul is dead now.  You need
    to get yourself large again.  There is a little path to the right.  Walk
    across it to the other screen.  You should now see a big keyboard.  Type 
    this in: ENLARGE.  After you have done that, walk back to the screen with
    the vent and the jar you were once captured in.  A Beam should be coming 
    down.  So, walk into the beam.  This will turn you big again.  You now 
    need to walk up the stairs.  When you have done this, there will be a box
    inside the tube.  OPEN the BOX and GET the OXYGEN MASK.  CLOSE the BOX. 
    WEAR the MASK.  Walk through the whole passage.  At the end of these 
    tunnels will be a long corridor.  Go to the left.  Keep going until you 
    are at the screen with the escape pods and the robot.  When you come upon 
    the first escape pod door, PRESS the BUTTON.  Then type ENTER POD.  If it 
    doesn't let you in, keep pressing F3 and ENTER until it does.  This is the 
    only way I know how to get past that.  I've heard that you can keep 
    running to the right until you get back to the escape pods.  I have not 
    tried it though.  After you have entered the pod and activated it, you 
    need to go to sleep after you have entered space.  To do that, walk over 
    the the sleep chamber, ENTER the CHAMBER and SLEEP.

     Congrats, you have now solved Space Quest ][!
    
 
     For any suggestions, comments, and/or additions, please contact me via
    Mail in one of these Geogia BBS':

     (404)-924-7963   The Education Center        SysOps: Mike & Joan Austin
     (404)-921-4395   The Atlanta Exchange        SysOp: Ken Cherry
     (404)-381-1947   AESC                              
     (404)-454-8795   Byte Flight (OPUS System)   SysOp: Mark Hulsey

     Please spread this program around!

     Thank you,
               Keith Miller
