THE STORY.....

The day begin just like many other perfect days in dewdropland but that
was soon to change.....  The fiendish professor Fransz Dandruff was going
to see to that.

The professor had been working for many years on a life extension machine.
It works by slowy draining the life-force energy from one person's body
into another.  While the victim's body shrivels up and dies, the other body
becomes young and strong again.  And who is going to get rejuvinated......
None other than the evil fransz Dandruff.

But who would be the victim?  The perfect person is pearly, Dewdropland's
reigning beauty queen.  She is young, healthy, particularly good looking
and best of all - easy to kidnap.  Without a second thought, Fransz Dandruff
whisked Pearly away.  Little suspecting that her boyfriend was Dewdropland's
resident super-hero Flimbo.

Flimbo is quickly in pursuit of his beloved Pearly.  He must get to Dandruff
Manor before her life-force is drained away.

Hearing of Flimbo's rescue mission, Fransz Dandruff releases a horde of
creatures to stop Flimbo.  Bred in his laboratory, the Genetically 
Undesirable Mutants(G.U.M.s) soon block every way into Dandruff's estate.
All would be lost for Flimbo if it weren't for the greedy magician Dazz
Bazian, whose only loyalty is to the money in his pocket.

Dazz Bazian agrees to help Flimbo in his quest, on the understanding that
a regular supply of money will be coming his way.  In each of the seven
sections of the Dandruff estate, Dazz opens up a shop.  Here Flimbo can
purchase and exchange money and gadgets for items that will help him
rescue Pearly.

At one of Dazz's emporiums Flimbo can buy precious time because Pearly's
life-force will only last as long as it takes the professor to charge up
his wicked machine.  Also, Flimbo can purchase different things from the
shop like a potion that makes him invunerable to attacks from G.U.M.s for
a short time, and another item that increases the shooting range of his
weapon.

The most important thing about one of Dazz's shops are the scrolls.  There
are two types of scrolls both of which can either be bought from Dazz or
collected around the estate.  The ordinary scroll contains a letter of a 
spell and a super-scroll contains a complete magic word.  A complete magic
spell is the only way Flimbo can get from one part of Dandruff's estate to
another.

One of the strangest things about Dandruff's G.U.M.s is that when they
are killed they sometimes turn into different objects like: money, scrolls,
weapons and so on.  In fact, all the things you can buy in a Dazz shop.
Occasionally, some G.U.M.s turn into hearts which change their colour when
shot.  Collecting the right number of different coloured hearts gives you
an extra life.

Even though Flimbo is a true super-hero(at least in Pearly's eyes), he does
have one shortcoming in that he is a clumsy when it comes to carrying things
around.  It is unwise to trust him with more than one object at a time,
because he will always drop whatever he is carrying when he picks up
something else.  To avoid embarrassment, he has to make frequent trips to
one of Dazz's shops to drop of his booty.  Fortunately, Flimbo does manage
to overcome his little problem when it comes to money and magic potions
and keeps a tight grip on them no matter what else he picks up.


DAZZ BAZIAN'S SHOPS

In Dazz Bazian's shop you can exchange money for the different items he 
has on display, these are shown as icons at both sides of the screen.  As
you enter the shop any hearts and scrolls you are carrying will automatically
be taken from you and displayed on the screen.  In the case of items like
invunerability potions, if you already have one of these then the 
appropriate icon on the screen will appear with a cross over it.  If you try
to buy something you have then Dazz will tell you that you already have it.

                           The Icon Layout

              SUPER WEAPON                   SCROLL

                EXIT SHOP                  EXTRA TIME

             INVUNERABILITY               SUPER SCROLL


By moving the joystick, each icon can be highlighted in turn and pressing
the fire button will selected that item.  If it has a value the cost will be
deducted form Flimbo's purse - if you do not have sufficient money then
Dazz will have something to say.

The costs of the different items are:

                       Super Weapon      350
                       Extra Time        300
                       Invunerability    250
                       Scroll            400
                       Super Scroll     2500


THE GOODIES

Super Weapon - gives you greater range and power of the weapon you already
have for example - a mutant that requires two or three shots normally can
be destroyed with one shot from the super weapon.

Extra Time - slows down the recharge time of Fransz Dandruff's machine
therefore giving you extra time to rescue Pearly.

Invunerability - having this will protect you from attack by mutants, but
only for a short period of time.  When you have invunerability Flimbo's face
turns green and while in this condition you can destroy mutants just by 
colliding into them.  To warn you when the effect is about to wear off,
Flimbo's face will begin to flash.

Scroll - Buying one or more scrolls to complete the magic word is useful if
time is running short - remember, its much cheaper if you can find, and 
kill, the creatures that carry scrolls.

Super Scroll - like the ordinary scroll, it turns into magic letters when
given to Dazz, except this is a complete word thereby allowing you to move
onto the next world as soon as you have it(useful when time is running
short - but very expensive!), can also be collected from a mutant, but they
are quite rare to see.

On display behind the counter in the shop are two vital pieces of 
information.  First, the magic letters you need to get into the next world.
Second, the number of and colour of hearts you have collected - this helps
you to work out what other colours you need in order to get an extra life.

You must remember that some creatures that you kill will occasionally turn
into the above items, so saving you lots of money.

Hint: although the super weapon is usually at the top of everyone's
shopping list you should seriously think how much time you have left to
rescue Pearly.


DOORWAYS

There are lots of doorways, caves and other types of entrances dotted around
the landscape of Dandruff's estate.  It is worth trying them all by standing
in front of them and pushing up on your joystick.  At some entrances etc.
nothing at all will happen, others may lead into one of Dazz Bazian's shops
(these are worth making a note of as there is only one per world.)  The best
of all are the ones leading to secret rooms.

Hint: it pays to try and find out which entrance is to Dazz's shop as 
quickly as possible.


SECRET ROOMS

In secret treasure rooms you will have the chance to accumulate a lot of
money.  Placed on shelves around the room there are either coins or money
bags.  Normally these are only a low value of money, but if you watch 
carefully then you will see that randomly the value of one object changes.

To collect the money in the room all you have to do is touch the money with
any part of Flimbo.  In order to get the most money possible do not just
run around the room collecting everything - look around the room for the
object that has changed to a higher value(indicated by a small white marker
on the outside of a money bag).

To get the high value objects, carefully jump over the others until you 
reach the one you want.  When an object changes to a higher value it stays
that way till you have collected it.

Remember, more money - more purchases from Dazz Bazian.

Hint: do not spend too much time in the secret rooms - time can be more
precious than money!


SCROLLS

Look out for mutants carrying scrolls.  You have to collect the scrolls
and take them to Dazz Bazian's shop.  Once there, the scrolls turn into
letters which will spell a magic word.  When the word is complete you can
move on to the next world by finding an exit doorway.  The first world's
word is only three letters long, as you travel through other worlds the
magic words become longer.

To indentify which creatures are carrying scrolls, a mug shot of the species
is displayed in the status area.  Also, the individual creature who has the
scroll has an arrow over its head.


JOYSTICK CONTROLS

Left And Right                  Moves Flimbo To The Left Or Right.

Up                              Makes Flimbo Jump.

Down                            Flimbo Comes Down From A Platform.

Fire Button                     Fires Flimbo's Weapon.

Fire Button And Down            Flimbo Ducks Down.


Hint: there are some scrolls hidden around Dandruff's estate, its always
worth ducking down to see what you may find!!

---
Typed by ZARCH!