
                                 DARK SIDE
                                 ---------

                           Edited by Codetapper!


THE GAME
--------
A Probe that was monitoring the dark side of the moon, Tricuspid, got shot
down by an installation built by your ancient enemies the Ketars.  The
Ketars are banned from your domain, and so it is your job to go and find
out what they are up to...


CONTROLS
--------

MOVEMENT MODE
-------------
Move Forward        [Cursor up]    or [O]
Move Back           [Cursor down]  or [K]
Turn Left           [Cursor left]  or [Q]
Turn Right          [Cursor right] or [W]
Fire                [0]


OTHER CONTROLS
--------------
Look Up             [P]
Look Down           [L]
Tilt Left           [N]
Tilt Right          [M]
Increase Angle      [A]
Decrease Angle      [Z]
Interrupt           [I]      (load, save, end)
Sights On/Off       [Space]
Fall (crouch) ver.  [F]
U Turn              [U]
Jet Pack (On/Off)   [J]
Music               [-]
Sound Fx            [+]
Increase Step Size  [S]
Decrease Step Size  [X]
Rise Vertically     [R]


MISSION BRIEFING
----------------
To avoid mass panic on Evath this mission is highly confidential...


BACKGROUND
----------
You will be transported by high speed shuttle to a safe drop zone on the
surface of tricuspid, close to the recent discharge of energy that
destroyed our probe.

The shuttle will deflect every known tracing beam and will remain
undetected, even on the moon's surface.  Because of this advantage you will
be transported to 200 meters distance to the perimeter of the alien
complex.


INTELLIGENCE BRIEF (ESSENTIAL READING)
--------------------------------------

ECD's
-----
In addition to the cryptic clues now in your possession the data crew have
only scant information as to the possible working of the Ketar edifice.
High energy particle beams were produced by the edifice - these can only be
produced by energy, produced by energy collection devices or ECD's.  These
Crystal like stones only exist in their present state by an anti matter
gossimer which contains the proton repulsion.  The ECD's are highly
effective photon receivers and channel energy to a main transmitter.  The
ECD's will be located on Metallic pillars around 15 meters high.


NOTES
-----
1. The anti matter gossimer is easily breached by your pack mounted lasers
   and thus easily destroyed.

2. ECD's are connected in the form of a grid.  They must therefore be
   destroyed in a sequence.  If an ECD is connected to two other active
   ECD's THE DEVICE WILL REGENERATE IMMEDIATELY.

3. The sequence of disabling ECDs and your progress through the Ketar
   edifice is given in the CRYPTIC CLUES but they have defeated our 
   attempts at deciphering.


PLEXORS
-------
While sensors now give a negative life reading for the surface of
Tricuspid, There is every reason to assume that the Ketars will have left
plexors to defend their edifice.  Plexors are robot "tank like" devices.
Compared to similar machines in our defences, they are primitive, but can
prove deadly.  Their fire power is limited and the metal skin of your suit
will absorb the first couple of charges.  They are programmed with only
limited intelligence and will only really attack if you make your presence
obvious or get in their way!


POWER PORTERS
-------------
Ketar technology is ahead of our own in transportation devices.  The
diagram (see picture) is a representation of spy reports of ketar power
porters.

Power porters resemble suspended slabs but are INSTANT TELEPORTATION
DEVICES.


TELEPOD
-------
This was used by the Ketars to gain access to restricted areas.  We believe
that before abandoning the moon, the Ketars hid the telepod crystals.
THESE MUST BE LOCATED BEFORE THE TELEPOD CAN BE ACTIVATED.


OBJECTIVE
---------
To save Evath from total destruction by destroying the Ketar ECDs in
sequence to prevent the activation of the particle beam transmitter.  Each
time an ECD is successfully disabled, this allows more time.

TIME IS CRUCIAL - EVATH IS LIKELY TO BE A ONLY A FEW MINUTES FROM
DESTRUCTION!


PLAYING HINTS FOR DARK SIDE
---------------------------
1. Disable 3 or 4 ECD's straight away to slow the timer down immediately.

2. Make repeated contact with the fuel rods in the various store areas 
   to refuel.

3. Make repeated contact with the pentagon shaped power points to recharge
   your shield.

4. To enter the overhead walkway - laser the rod above the door, so it 
   spins, repeat until doorway opens.

5. Shoot radar beacons to prevent being thrown into prison.

6. Make contact with telepod crystals. These are then positioned on the
   centre console within the telepod. To activate shoot the crystals then
   leave the telepod, you will now be in a new area.

7. "Buy" your way out of confinement by lasering slots in the pillars - 
   energy and shield will be reduced.

Advanced tip - After destroying the lonely switch before it disappears, you
can make dark out of light.

Moving faster - Forward - hold both forward keys down at the same time (or
joystick forward and keys).

To aid climbing in and out of tunnels - reduce step size to 100.


MESSAGE FROM THE DATA CREW
--------------------------
Your mission is indeed difficult in the extreme - we in the data crew have
'extracted' the following cryptic clues from a Ketar spy.  Unfortunately,
he took his own life rather than give us the full answers...  and they have
beaten our experts in the data crew, but we do believe they give sufficient
information to complete your mission.

1. In house sustenance is required for the task that awaits you.

2. In the cupboard that is bare, jerry mouse may find a Royal reception.
   However, before you roll back the carpet make sure that you are well fed.

3. Turn to the Axeman to provide an opening to the brightest star.

4. The brightest speck of the Dog star is where you should start your
   crusade.

5. Crossing the kennel of the lesser dog, beware of getting your goose cooked
   by microwaves.

6. Within the east end, the decrystalization of the gem in the eye of the
   southern fish will allow you to head towards the land of the penguins.

8. Emulate the journey of scott the adventurer. *

9. Head for the god of waters large heavenly body and remove the sun's
   influence in three areas.

10. If you're too left wing, you could find yourself out of your depth.

11. You do not need any support when in the company of the cup bearer to
    Zeus.

12. Whilst in orbit around Saturn, remember there are two sides to every 
    argument, but one more to this clue.

13. Don't be square - Go for it!

14. Animated Mondrian provides the next step.

15. The argonauts went in search of the Golden fleece, their vessel will ship
    you to new heights.

16. We've got the green light, who's going to use it?

17. Defect to the east. Do not pass go. Do not collect -200

18. The postal service is so expensive these days.

19. Head for the seedier side of the tunnel. Or as the electrician's wife
    said, "WIRE YOU INSULATE?"

20. Use BR's underground to get to the middle of this place. The death of 
    another crystal must fall on deaf ears.

21. Take the cubed root of 729, multiply by 10 and add the first number you 
    didn't think of and head in the direction. Shoot the eye of the southern
    fish.

22. Stride out under the heavens to reach this land.

23. Blindfold the unicorn completely.

24. Thence onwards to usurp the King and Queen of the fairies.

25. The antipodes hides the next like in the chain.

26. Follow the chain to destroy poseidon's satellite links.

27. Enter the successor to the liberator. "KILL THE THREE OF THEM", said ORAC.

28. Head towards the land where the shadows are strongest.

29. Destroy the two crystals that are unable to take a bearing.

30. gut the remainder of the fish to destroy Mondrian's junction.

31. Between 21 May and 21 June, find yourself a twin to erase.

32. Now for a test of personality. Who would win?

33. Shoot to the port side. Oh, no its the wrong one - beam me up, Scotty!

34. Help the post office. No not like that you dunce! Go stand in the corner.

35. Who knows where to go next?

36. More postal pranks are in store for the boys in blue. **

37. Answer the travel agent's call in the police phonebox.

38. Take red from orange and you will find the answer in the 11th letter.

39. I thought i could sing a rainbow, but I only know the first colour.

40. For your finale, go out in a blaze of darkness.
