                   IT CAME FROM THE DESERT SOLUTION

Typed in by PARASITE of LSD.


WHO DO YOU TRUST
Generally speaking, Nobody.  People who you can always rely on are
Geez, Dusty (usually), Professor Wells and Biff.  Don't trust Bert,
the two men at the quarry or Billy Bob and his daughter.

TIMES & PLACES
Don't try and beat the Mutants by rushing out all over the place.  On
of the best ways to do your detective work is to stay at home.  Make
sure your home to answer the door or phone at these times;

JUNE 1 (Start)  Geez calls round.  Ask him about his Donkey for a
rough guide to the location of the ants nest.

JUNE 1 (10am)  There's a phone call from Bert.

JUNE 3 (9am-12pm)  Billy Bobs daughter calls round.  Your next door
neighbour calls round at random.  There aren't many times when your
requested to phone people up, but Dusty is usually available between
10am and 7pm for the odd bit of info.  Weather reports are helpful for
predicting the ants movements.

WHERE TO FIND ANTS
Ants can usually be found in and around the SW volcano (although they
can oftern be found near the NE volcano also).  This is their main
hideout.  You can find them wandering near mine one or JDs farm.  Ida
can sometimes tell you where the nest is but her information is not
always accurate.  Its best to talk to as many people as possible and
compare what they say and what you already know.  That way you can
sort out who's telling the truth.

EVIDENCE
You need to collect four pieces of evidence to convince the mayor of
the ants exists.  If you don't he will still call a general alert but
it'll be too late.  Take each bit of evidence to the lab for analysis
and collect it the next day.  After analysing four pieces of evidence,
take them to the mayor.

ANT FLUIDS - can either be found at the car accident (June 3), at
Neptune hall (June 7) or at the quarry (June 7-9).

ANT TRACKS - Probably the hardest to find.  The old codger at Cooks
Stud Farm will often let you take a cast (June 7-8) or try searching
around one of the volcanoes.

TISSUE SAMPLES - Can be picked after a battle with the ants.
Sometimes your next door neighbour pops around with an ant leg.

TAPE RECORDING OF ANT SOUNDS - The best time to get a tape recording
is to wait until Louis turns up all excited after having one of his
planes fitted with a tape recorder (usually around 4-5), save the game
here.  Now take a flight and try to find some ants.  You know you've
found some when you hear a strange whirring noise.  Spray a few ants
with the insecticide.  Then make your way back to the airstrip with
your tape recording.

THE ARCADE GAMES

FIRE-FIGHTING - This sequence will only appear if you say to Biff
'hand me the red one' when you are looking at Geez's rock samples.
The best way to deal with the fire is to go for the biggest flames
first.  Always aim just below the flames for the best results.

CHICKEN - Easy.  Accelerate as normal and hold your ground.  Ice will
veer off at the last moment.

KNIFE FIGHTS - Easier than the fights in Rocket Ranger.  When fighting
Ice or Bert you can use the swipe and stab movements and hardly ever
need to block.  Try to use the continuous swipes.  When fighting Billy
Bob you must when he attempts to stab you.

HOSPITAL ESCAPE - Time is precious so escape quickly.  Wait until
there are no guards or nurses in the room then nip out.  Now go and
find a wheelchair, they can usually be found in the corners of the
hospital.  Once you've found one get in and go to the lift (hit the
man in traction on the way, just for a laugh).  Make sure no-one gets
in the lift with you.  When on the ground floor, approach the grey
guards from thrir left and make them follow you.  Take them around the
building, until they are far away from the main door.
Accelerate away and go to the right side of the main doors, the guards
shouldn't be there.  Make your exit from the hospital.

ANT ATTACK (Face to face)
When the ant appears aim your gun about halfway down its body, at its
front legs.  When you fire the gun you should blast off one of its
antennae (you need some practice).  When the ant has calmed down,
repeat the procedure, and blow off its other antennae.

ANT ATTACK (Overhead)
It dosen't matter which weapon you use in this sequence, they both
have a similar range.  Shoot ants when there around one and a half
body lengths away.  The shot should land nicely on its abdomen,
leaving a sticky mess which can be used as evidence.

FLYING
Use the North runway for the best takeoff.  Once airbourne head SW to
JDs farm (ants can usually be found around here).  Fly low to conserve
fuel.

BOMBING
Position the crosshairs where you think the ants are heading for.
Start bombing just before the army flies in.  This is great for
destroying large groups of ants.
The queens nest - before you attempt to kill the queen in its lair, it
is a good idea to equip yourself with a flame thrower and some fuel
(available from the gasstation).  The ants nest is somewhere around
the mine shack.  By about day 7 this area will be crawling with ants.
Go to the source and you will see holes appearing in the ground as the
ants emerge from the nest.  Kill an ant as it climbs out, and run for
the hole.  The flame thrower iss useful for despatching attacking
ants, but it is often easier to outrun them.  Follow the maps to the
queen and touch her body.  This will set the timed explosives.  Make
your way back to the enterance to level two of the nest, don't rush,
you have plenty of time.

You have now completed the game.

End.
