




                                     ARCHON

     Typed in by ???. Edited by Parasite.


     THE GAME.  ARCHON depicts the eternal struggle between Light and Darkness
     as a contest of action and strategy between opposing forces wrought from
     myth and legend.  The Light Side and the Dark Side are equal in number,
     balanced in strength, but not identical.  Their aim, however, the same,
     conquest of the five "power points" or the elimination of the opposite
     side.

     ICONS.  The various fantastic creatures at your command are represented by
     specific images - "icons" - stylized pictures of knights, goblins,
     manticores, and the like.

     THE TWO SCREENS.  ARCHON is played on two screens.  On one - the strategy
     screen - you and your opponent take turns maneuvering your icons into
     favorable positions.  When you place an icon on a square already occupied
     by one of your opponent's icons, the game shifts temporarily to the second
     screen display, the combat arena.

     HOSTILITIES.  In old-fashioned and - admit it - somewhat dull board games
     (chess backgammon, and their ilk), the "defending" piece gets removed
     quietly from the board and the "attacker" wins the "battle" - and the
     square - without a blow being struck.
          In ARCHON, we do not allow such docility, such rank defeatism on the
     part of the defender.  No!  If you want that square, you have to fight for
     it!  When you try to occupy a square held by the enemy, the disputed square
     expands to fill the entire screen...and then, in the words of a certain
     orange-skinned monster of comic book fame, "IT'S CLOBBERIN' TIME".

     INITIAL STRATEGY SCREEN

     THE LUMINOSITY CIRCLE.  ARCHON's strategy screen changes.  While some
     squares are always white or always black, others - "luminance" squares
     (marked with a sextagon) - vary in brightness throughout the game in a
     simple patter:  black - dark - barely dark - barely light - light -
     white....and reverse.  Back and forth, throughout the game, the cycle
     continues, the luminance shifting after every other turn.

     POWER POINTS.  The five "power points" are indicated on the screen by
     flashing read symbols.  Icons on power points heal faster than usual and
     are protected from the effects of magic spells.  If your icons occupy all
     five power points you win the game.

     MOVEMENT.  If the hallow square of "frame" is on your side, it's your
     turn.  (Simple eh?) Use your joystick to move the frame atop the icon you
     want.  Once you push the button to confirm your choice, you must move that
     icon somewhere.  (If an icon has nowhere to go, the computer will not allow
     you to "pick it up".).  Once you move the icon to its destination (again,
     with the joystick), push the button again, and the obedient image will
     freeze in place.
          Movement comes in three flavors:  ground, fly, and teleport.  Ground
     movers cannot move through occupied squares; fliers are restricted only in
     where they land.  Fliers can also move diagonally, ground icons cannot.
     Only the Wizard and the Sorceress and teleport, but for practical purposes
     you can think of them as fliers in disguise.








          On any turn, you can move an icon as far as its range allows in any
     direction or combination of directions.  It can stop on any square not
     already occupied by one of your own icons.
          Note:  If you change your mind while maneuvering a ground mover, you
     must backtrack.  Otherwise, the computer, being very literal minded, will
     assume you are trying to extend your move unlawfully,

     THE COMBAT ARENA

     COMBAT.  Action in the combat arena is immediate and simultaneous; there is
     no taking turns.  Joysticks direct movement of the icons.  Pressing the
     button initiates an attack - swinging the sword, firing an arrow, casting a
     fireball - in the direction the joystick is pointed.  You can attack or
     move in any of eight directions:  up, down, left, right, and the four
     diagonals.  Important:  your icon cannot move while the button is pressed.
         Combat is of three general types.  Knights and Goblins are sword
     swingers and club wielders; they must be very near an opponent to inflict
     damage.
         The Banshee and the Phoenix inflict damage in a circular area around
     themselves; the longer the opposing icon is in that circle, the greater the
     damage it sustains.  Such "area" attacks need not be aimed.
         All the other icon "throw" missiles of some sort and can, consequently,
     do damage from a considerable distance.  See the Quick Reference Card for a
     detailed comparison of the speed ("Attack Speed") of a damage done ("Attack
     Force") by the different missiles.

     THE ATTACK INTERVAL.  While combat is fast and furious, you can't just fire
     away as fast as your finger twitches.  It takes a moment to raise a sword
     into position to strike; longer to conjure even a fast fireball; and the
     better part of two whole seconds (!) to rip a boulder out of the ground and
     lift it high enough to throw.
          Pushing the button before your icon is ready to strike will accomplish
     nothing - except to keep your icon from moving.  At the exact instant you
     can launch another attack, the computer rings a bell - a high note for the
     Light Side, a lower one for the Dark Side - to let you know.

     BARRIERS.  The obstacles or barriers in the arena go through luminosity
     cycles of their own.  Be careful; they can be as tricky as an opponent!

          Normally, a barrier is impenetratable.  However, when its cycle
     changes a barrier's luminance to exactly match the color of the background,
     the barrier disappears...for a few seconds.  You can walk over it, shoot
     past it, anything.  It's gone.
          Furthermore, for a few seconds before a barrier vanishes and after it
     reappears, you can walk or fire a missile through it, but you (or the
     missile) will be slowed down.
          If this seems at all confusing, just remember that the more solid a
     barrier looks, the more solid it is.  If you have any doubts, avoid the
     barrier entirely - and get out of the way of oncoming missiles.

     LIFE, DEATH, AND WOUNDS.  The "lifelines" at either end of the arena
     indicate the current lifespan (health/strength) of the two battling icons.
     When an icon is wounded, its matching lifeline is reduced in proportion to
     the severity of the wound.  When its lifeline is gone, the icon is "dead"
     and combat is over.
          A victorious icon returns to the strategy screen in control of the
     disputed square.  However, a seriously wounded icon is easier to defeat the
     next time it is forced to fight.  Even the strongest icon can be worn down








     by waves of attackers.
          On the strategy screen, wounded icons are healed slowly by the simple
     passage of time, more quickly, by resting on a power point; or instantly
     and completely, by a Heal spell.

     MAGIC SPELLS

     Magic is arguable the most significant strategic element in ARCHON.  Only
     the two mages (magicians) - the Wizard and the Sorceress - can cast spells,
     and each mage can cast each spell only once.  While the spells are
     powerful, they have one drawback:  each spell weakens the mage casting it,
     leaving the mage progressively less able to defend itself against direct
     attack.
         A spell may cast instead of a regular move on the strategy screen.
     Simply move the frame atop your mage, as if you were going to move it.
     Push the button, and the usual message appears.  Without moving the icon,
     however, just push the button again, and you will get a new message:
     "SELECT YOUR SPELL".
          Push the joystick up or down to survey the spells still available, and
     push the button when you find the one you want.  If further actions on your
     part are required, additional messages will direct you appropriately.
          Remember that you can't conjure the same spell more than once, and you
     can't cast a spell against power points or icons on them.  Details are
     given below.

     TELEPORT

     EFFECT:  This spell moves - teleports - any one of your icons any distance
     from one square on the strategy screen to another.

     ACTIONS REQUIRED:  After selecting the spell, move the frame to the icon
     you want; push the button; and then move the icon to its destination - just
     as if it were a normal move.

     RESTRICTIONS:  You cannot move an enemy icon.  You cannot move onto a
     square already occupied by one of your own icons (as usual).  You cannot
     teleport onto or off a power point.  You cannot teleport an imprisoned
     icon.  (See IMPRISON).

     ADDITIONAL NOTE:  Do not confuse this spell with a mage's normal three
     square movement.  That is minor magic, on the same order as casting
     fireballs, and is not bound by the restrictions of the seven major spells.

     HEAL

     EFFECT:  This spell instantly heals any icon of all wounds it has sustained
     in the combat arena.

     ACTIONS REQUIRED:  After selecting the spell, move the frame to the
     wounded icon, and push the button.

     RESTRICTIONS:  You cannot heal an icon resting on a power point.  You can
     "heal" an already healthy icon, but why bother.

     SHIFT TIME

     EFFECT:  Two effects are possible.  Most often, the spell reverses the flow
     of time:  i.e., the direction of the luminosity cycle of the delta squares.








     Squares that had been growing gradually darker now grow lighter - until the
     cycle peaked.  However, if the spell is cast when the luminosity cycle is
     at either peak, SHIFT TIME will cause the cycle to shift abruptly to the
     opposite extreme (from black to white, or vice versa).

     ACTION REQUIRED:  None after selecting the spell.

     RESTRICTIONS:  None

     EXCHANGE

     EFFECT:  This spell causes any two icons on the strategy screen to trade
     places.

     ACTIONS REQUIRED:  Move the frame to one of the icons you wish to
     transpose, and push the button.  Then do the same to the other icon.

     RESTRICTIONS:  Neither icon can be imprisoned or on a power point.

     SUMMON ELEMENTAL

     EFFECT:  This spell allows you to attack any enemy icon with a new
     temporary icon representing one of four elementals - animated spirit of the
     ancient elements of earth, air, fire and water.  Combat is conducted in the
     combat arena as usual, except that the elemental vanishes after the battle,
     win or lose.

     ACTIONS REQUIRED:  Once is the spell is selected and the elemental appears
     on your side of the strategy screen, move it to the icon you wish to
     attack.  In the combat arena, direct the elemental just as you would any
     other icon.

     RESTRICTIONS:  You cannot attack an icon on a power point.  You cannot
     direct the elemental to a vacant square or one occupied by one of your own
     icons.  You cannot choose which elemental will respond to your summons.

     REVIVE

     EFFECT:  This spell restores to the game an icon previously lost ("killed")
     in combat.

     ACTIONS REQUIRED:  The procedure is similar to a TELEPORT spell or a
     normal move, except that the revived icon comes from a special display by
     the side of the strategy screen, and its destination must be a vacant
     square next to the mage.

     RESTRICTIONS:  You cannot "revive" an icon not already dead.  One of the
     (initially five) squares adjoining your mage must be vacant, and you must
     put the revived icon on one of those vacant squares.

     IMPRISON

     EFFECT:  This spell keeps an icon on the strategy screen from leaving the
     square.  The icon can fight its attackers in the combat arena, but it
     cannot be moved off its square.  Important:  an imprisoned mage cannot cast
     spells!  Imprisonment is temporary.  A Dark Side icon would remain
     imprisoned until the delta squares turn black; a Light Side icon would be
     freed when delta squares turn white.









     ACTIONS REQUIRED:  Once the spell is cast, move the frame to the target
     icon, and push the button.

     RESTRICTIONS:  You cannot imprison an icon on a power point.  You cannot
     imprison any icon at a time when the luminosity cycle would automatically
     free it.

     CEASE CONJURING This is not a spell; it is a way to avoid casting a spell
     if you miscalculate.  If you change your mind while selecting a spell, or
     if the spell you want is unavailable or canceled, you may push the button
     when CEASE CONJURING is displayed.  This will allow you to start your turn
     over.

     THE OPPOSING FORCES
     LIGHT SIDE

     THE WIZARD:  An ancient man of vast supernatural power, the WIZARD is the
     leader of the Light Side.  In battle, the WIZARD casts devastating balls of
     fire.  He rarely ventures from the safety of his home power point, however,
     and is more commonly used to cast one of the seven spells (See MAGIC
     SPELLS).

     THE UNICORN:  Resembling a great white horse with the tail of a lion and a
     sharp, spiral horn set at its brow, the UNICORN is swift and agile.  The
     beautiful creature can fire blinding blots of energy from its magical horn.

     THE ARCHERS:  The ARCHERS are fearless Amazon warriors of legendary skill
     with their fine, whitewood bows.  They are endowed with magical quivers
     that can never be emptied.

     THE GOLEM:  A GOLEM is an artificial being shaped from a stone and
     gleaming metal, and animated by magic.  Roughly man-shaped, it is hugh,
     twice the height of a man.  Its weapons are boulders ripped from the earth
     and hurled with devastating force.

     THE VALKYRIES:  VALKYRIES are beauteous blonde war maidens from the
     legions of Valhalla.  Each of these ferocious females is endowed with two
     great magical gifts:  first the ability to stride the air as if it were
     solid ground; and, second an enchanted spear, which, when thrown, returns
     to her hand of its own accord.

     THE DJINNI:  The DJINNI is a magical being from another dimension, a plane
     of tempest and storm.  In form he is a hugh, superbly muscled man whose
     body is partly flesh and partly swirling currents of air.  A cousin to the
     wind itself, the DJINNI can raise a small tornado with a gesture and
     control it with a thought.

     THE PHOENIX:  The PHOENIX is a flaming bird of immense size and power.  In
     battle it can explode into a seething mass of fire, scorching anyone on the
     perimeter of the blaze and burning severely any enemy unfortunate enough to
     be caught near the incandescent core.  Not only is the PHOENIX unscathed by
     its own flames, but, while undergoing its fiery metamorphosis, it cannot be
     harmed by any attack known.

     THE KNIGHTS:  The KNIGHTS are foot soldiers armed and armored against foes
     far larger than themselves.  Although they cannot withstand more than one
     blow from many of their enemies, they need not be mere cannon (or dragon)








     fodder.  Provided they are swift and clever, their speed of attack gives
     them a chance to survive and triumph.

     DARK SIDE

     THE SORCERESS:  The equal of the old WIZARD only in power, the eternally
     young and ever beautiful SORCERESS is his counterpart in all ways.  Her
     lightning bolts are swifter and surer than his fireballs, if a shade less
     potent.  Fierce in battle but safest on the black power point, she is most
     often used to cast the seven spells (See MAGIC SPELLS).

     THE BASILISK:  The BASILISK is a small, crested reptile with a scaly body
     of a lizard and the bulbous glowing eyes of a gorgon.  Although it is
     relatively short-lived, the beast's quick movements and deadly glance make
     it a terrifying opponent.

     THE MANTICORE:  The MANTICORE resembles a large golden lion with a human
     face and a scorpion's thorny tail.  This nasty appendage bristles with
     great quills like spikes, which the fell beast can fling over its head with
     surprising accuracy.

     THE TROLL:  A dweller in caves and dark places, the misshapen TROLL is a
     shambling giant, dull but strong, clumsy but hard to slay.  Like the GOLEM,
     it carriers no ready-made weapons; instead, it seizes boulders, tree trunks
     - whatever comes to hand - and catapults the massive objects at its
     enemies.

     THE SHAPESHIFTER:  The SHAPESHIFTER is a doppleganger, a demonic creature
     without true shape or form, save what it steals from its enemies.  In
     battle it becomes the mirror image of its opponent, strongest on squares
     where its enemy is weakest, turning the enemy's powers against itself.  It
     has no fixed lifespan; all wounds that do not prove fatal will heal as soon
     as it assumes a new form.

     THE DRAGON:  The DRAGON, a monstrous serpentine reptile, is without peer
     in the combat arena.  One gout of its flaming breath will kill many
     creatures, and a second blast is almost always fatal.  Highly mobile and
     very difficult to slay, its awesome powers make it second in value only to
     the Sorceress.

     THE BANSHEE:  The BANSHEE is an undead spirit that feeds off the souls of
     her opponents, a ghostly apparition that attacks with her keening wail,
     draining the life from anyone in range of the sound (the shaded area around
     her).  Prolonged exposure to the terrifying shriek can be fatal.  THE
     GOBLINS:  GOBLINS are hideous dwarves, twisted of limb and misshapen of
     feature, unfriendly and often violent.  Their mutual antagonism is kept in
     check only by the powers of the Sorceress.  On dark ground their gnarled
     clubs are more than a match for the swords of the Knights and if
     well-directed they can bring down the most potent of enemies.

     PLAYING HINTS

     STRATEGY SCREEN: OPENINGS

     CONSERVATIVE OPENINGS.  This involves moving your unfavorably located icons
     onto more favorable squares (white squares for Light icons, black squares
     for Dark icons).  The idea is to establish a strong, balanced position
     early on.  Since the corner icons (the Valkyrie/Banshee) are mobile and








     especially vulnerable to magical attack (via the Summon Elemental or
     Teleport spells), these are often the first to be moved.  Being a
     ground-mover, the Unicorn/Banshee will be stuck on the "wrong" square until
     you clear an escape route, either directly by moving the Knight/Goblin in
     front of it or indirectly, and more slowly, by moving other Knights/Goblins
     and then adjacent icons in the back rank.  MAGICAL ASSAULT ("BIG JUJU" OR
     "MAJOR MANA" OPENING).  The aim here is to wipe out the strongest enemy
     icon right off the bat, before it can do any harm.  This is most easily
     done with a combination of spells:  Imprison, Summon Elemental, Teleport,
     and if needed, Reverse Time.  The first spell holds the victim immobile
     while you attack with an elemental and then one of your strongest icons
     teleported across the board.  Shift Time may be used to prevent the
     imprisoned icon from getting away before you can finish it off.  MONSTER
     ROMP.  This is risky but fun and sometimes surprisingly effective.  Just
     fly or teleport one of your strongest icons (the DJINNI/DRAGON or
     PHOENIX/SHAPESHIFTER) to the other side of the board, and take it on a
     rompin' stompin' tour of all the occupied squares unfavorable to the icons
     stuck on them.  This procedure tends to throw new players into a panic,
     which is always helpful.  More experienced players will either imprison the
     attacker or counter with a monster romp of their own.  Rapid attrition on
     both sides follows such a counterattack.

     STRATEGY SCREEN: GENERAL HINTS

     STAY ON YOUR COLOR!  The effect of a square's luminance on the life of your
     icon is large - often as much as 50%.  Attack on unfavorable squares only
     if you have an overwhelming superiority over the defending icon.  PLAN
     AHEAD.  Most successful attacks require more than one move to execute.
     Before taking a square consider what you will do afterwards.  What icon
     will continue the assault if the first attacker dies?  AVOID TRAFFIC JAMS.
     Make openings in your front line for ground-movers to pass.  The greater
     your force's mobility, the greater flexibility and strength.  PROTECT YOUR
     MAGE!  The Wizard/Sorceress may be a tough hombre in the combat arena, but
     doom is nigh should you lose your mage early in the game.  Since power
     points are immune to magic spells, it is a wise idea to keep your
     Wizard/Sorceress at home.

     STRATEGY SCREEN: SPELLS

     TELEPORT:  This spell is handy for tossing a slow or unfavorably placed
     icon into your opponent's back rank to raise a ruckus.  Alternatively, you
     can teleport a wounded icon out of danger.  HEAL:  Never heal the
     Shapeshifter!  Since it regenerates completely between battles, the spell
     would be wasted.  SHIFT TIME:  Use this spell to prolong an imprisonment by
     reversing the flow of time before the luminance cycle peaks, free the enemy
     icon.  Conversely, especially if you are playing second, you can free your
     own imprisoned icon early by casting the spell at the opposing luminosity
     peak:  in that case, the cycle will jump to your peak, and your icon will
     be freed.  A more strategic use of the spell could allow you to make a
     concerted attack on the power points - and possibly win the game - by
     keeping the luminance favorable.  EXCHANGE:  An enemy advance can be
     frustrated temporarily by exchanging a menacing intruder (e.g.  an opposing
     Dragon/Djinni) in your territory with a weaker icon (a Goblin/Knight) from
     your opponent's rear ranks.  SUMMON ELEMENTAL:  Since elementals are
     neutral beings, unaffected by changes in luminance, they are well suited to
     attacking an annoying enemy icon that remains on squares favorable to it.
     The spell is also de rigueur against mages that venture from their home
     power points.  REVIVE:  Revive only strong icons.  Also, avoid placing a








     revived icon on an unfavorable square, or it may die again immediately.
     IMPRISON:  The real trick with this spell is timing, coupled with Shift
     Time, if necessary, prolong the effect.  Imprison a threatening intruder to
     blunt an attack, or immobilize a strong icon on a delta square; then attack
     when the luminance cycle is most favorable.

     TIPS ON STRATEGY

     COMBAT ARENA: GENERAL HINTS

     DON'T MOVE IN STRAIGHT LINES.  Monsters are tricky; you should be too.
     Dodge and weave.  Don't become predictable.  HIT AND RUN.  Don't just fire
     a shot and then sir there waiting for a retaliatory strike.  Take your
     finger off the button immediately after firing, and boogie on out of there!
     If you hit something, it can probably hit you.  USE DIAGONAL SHOTS!
     Although difficult to master 45 degree - angle shots will improve your
     performance dramatically.  Few players manage consistent diagonals.  TRAP
     YOUR OPPONENT IN A CORNER.  This is especially helpful for sloggers with
     slow, easily dodged missiles and for the poor infighters (Knights/Goblins).
     FEINT!  Trick your opponent into attacking by moving into the line of fire
     momentarily.  Then, in the interval before the enemy icon can attack again,
     close in and loose your own attack.  CONFUSE YOUR OPPONENT.  When at close
     range, dodge back and forth to keep from being nailed.  This is especially
     important when you cannot afford an exchange of blows and is vital for a
     Knight/Goblin.  KNOW YOUR ICON'S STRENGTHS AND WEAKNESSES.  Different icons
     require different tactics - sometime radically different - and the nature
     of your immediate enemy should also affect your course of action.

     COMBAT ARENA: THE ICONS

      WIZARD.  Avoid using the Wizard in combat unless attacked.  In a fight,
     approach mid-range but no closer.  Stay in the open; fireballs are easily
     stopped by barriers.
      SORCERESS.  Avoid combat if possible!  The speed of her lightening bolts
     makes the Sorceress effective at long range.  Play defensively, and use the
     barriers to trap an enemy long enough to zap it.
      UNICORN/BASILISK.  Speed and distance are their prime weapons.  Never
     close, especially if the opponent is in the open.  Try to use lines of
     barriers as alleys for fire.
      ARCHER.  The Archer's arrows are not fast, so she must get fairly close to
     ensure a hit.  Slower targets, of course, allow greater range.
      GOLEM/TROLL.  The advantages of these slow-moving creatures are their long
     lives and deadly attacks.  (Those boulders hurt!) Since the rocks travel
     slowly, the Golem/Troll must get close to the enemy.  Be aggressive!
      DJINNI/DRAGON.  You have power to spare here, so be brazen in attack.
     Avoid possible entanglements of cluttered terrain when fighting an icon
     with a fast attack.
      VALKYRIE.  The Valkyrie is basically a tougher archer with a more damaging
     but slower moving attack.  Use similar tactics.
      PHOENIX.  Get close - the closer the better.  Trap fast foes in corners.
     Avoid firing alleys, and use the explosive attack defensively when
     necessary to keep from being hit never sit still when vulnerable.
      SHAPESHIFTER.  The success of this icon is solely dependent on the proper
     battleground.  Avoid white squares like the plague!  Ignore the Knights.
     (Why take a chance on getting killed for so small a prize?) Attack strong
     icons on black or dark squares.
      MANITCORE.  This beast has the advantage of a broader attack than its
     counterparts, especially on diagonals.  Be bold against weak opponents, but








     remain at mid-range when fighting more dangerous adversaries.
      BANSHEE.  The Banshee requires - and rewards - great skill; she is worth
     the extra effort needed.  Stay out of firing lines until the moment of
     attack; then come in from the side, where the area of effect is greatest.
     Release the joystick button immediately after pressing it, and follow the
     opponent closely to prolong the exposure to the scream.  Avoid the Golem
     (sometimes known as "the Banshee Curse").
      KNIGHT/GOBLIN.  Where these infighters are concerned, he who
     hesitates....is dog food.  Move quickly but erratically.  Get in close and
     stay there!  Dodge back and forth or circle your enemy to avoid return fire
     and fluster your opponent.  Never stand still, and attack constantly.  In a
     Knight-Goblin conflict, use feints and stop thrusts.  Accept an exchange of
     blows only if you have a significant luminosity advantage.
      ELEMENTALS.  The four elementals are quite different from one another.
     The Earth elemental should be played like a Golem/Troll which it greatly
     resembles.  Of the other three, Fire has the fastest and most damaging
     attacks, and Water the longest lifespan.  Tactically, you can think of Fire
     as a Wizard, Air as an Archer, and Water as a Manticore.  REgardless of
     which elemental you have, however, be aggressive!!!!  Remember that it
     wounds don't matter, since it will not outlast the battle, anyway.

     COMMAND SUMMARY
     Notice:  This product requires Kickstart version 1.1.  To Start:  Kickstart
     your Amiga and then insert your Archon disk in the internal drive.  It will
     boot automatically.  If your Amiga is already up and running, insert your
     Archon disk and "warm boot".  Pressing the SPACEBAR during the introductory
     screen takes you to the introduction of the icon; pressing it again by
     passes the rest of the introduction and takes you directly to the Main
     Menu.  Main Menu:  Select Main Menu choices with the joystick plugged into
     Port #2.  As you move the joystick, the selection arrow moves from box to
     box.  Make your selection by pressing the joystick button when the arrow is
     in the appropriate box.  Options:  Choose from the following options for
     each side:

          Human: Human makes all moves for that side.
          Computer: Computer makes all moves for that side.
          Cyborg:  Human player makes the moves on the strategy board, while the
     computer controls combat on the battleground.  You can override the
     computer by pressing the joystick button when prompted, before the battle
     begins.  Handcapping:  The greater the difference in rank between the two
     players, the greater the higher ranked player's handicap.  A handicapped
     player's icons and missiles move more slowly, and the missiles take longer
     to reload.  For the maximum possible handicap, the weaker player should
     choose Beginner and the stronger player Advanced.

     Start Play:  To start play with the Light side moving first, move the
     selection arrow into the Left (Light) Start box and press and release the
     joystick button.  Conversely, to start play with the Dark side moving
     first, press the joystick button with the selection arrow the Right (Dark)
     Start box.  If you make no choice, the computer will play a demonstration
     game.  Joystick Control:  If you are playing against the computer, plug
     your joystick in Port #2.  For a two-player game, you will need two
     joysticks.  In that case, Port #1 controls the Light Side and Port #2
     controls the Dark Side.

     MOVING

     1.  Strategy.  Use your joystick to move icons and frames, and press the








     button to start and finish moves.  If you change your mind about moving a
     particular icon on the strategy board, just move it back to the square you
     picked it up from, and press the button.  You can then start your turn over
     by picking up another icon.

      2.  Combat.  Use the following instructions for each icon:
          Knight or Goblin:  Move the joystick toward the enemy and press the
     button to swing your weapon.
          Banshee:  Press button to initiate attack.  Banshee can move while
     screaming.
          Phoenix:  Press button to initiate attack.  Phoenix cannot move until
     the explosion is over.
          All Others:  Move joystick in the direction your wish to fire, and
     then press button to fire.  Note:  Because of the 3-D simulation on the
     battlefield, a "hit" on the lower portion of an icon is likely to pass
     harmlessly in front of it.  For best results, aim at the upper portion of
     the icon.  Pausing or Quitting:  During play, pressing the SPACEBAR at any
     time pauses the game.  Resume play by pressing it a second time.  Pressing
     Q (for "Quit") ends the game and returns you to the Main Menu.

     ARCHON -- QUICK REFERENCE CARD The Opposing Forces -- Light Side

          WIZARD                             VALKYRIE
     MOVEMENT: Teleport-3               MOVEMENT: Fly-3
     SPEED: Normal                      SPEED: Normal
     ATTACK MODE: Fireball              ATTACK MODE: Magic Spear
     ATTACK FORCE: Great                ATTACK FORCE: Moderate
     ATTACK SPEED: Medium               ATTACK SPEED: Slow
     ATTACK INTERVAL: Average           ATTACK INTERVAL: Average
     LIFESPAN: Average                  LIFESPAN: Average
     NUMBER ON SIDE: 1                  NUMBER ON SIDE: 2
          UNICORN                            DJINNI
     MOVEMENT: Ground-3                 MOVEMENT: Fly-4
     SPEED: Normal                      SPEED: Normal
     ATTACK MODE: Energy Ball           ATTACK MODE: Whirlwind
     ATTACK FORCE: Moderate             ATTACK FORCE: Moderate
     ATTACK SPEED: Fast                 ATTACK SPEED: Medium
     ATTACK INTERVAL: Short             ATTACK INTERVAL: Long
     LIFESPAN: Short                    LIFESPAN: Very Long
     NUMBER ON SIDE: 2                  NUMBER ON SIDE: 1
          ARCHER                             PHOENIX
     SPEED: Normal                      SPEED: Normal
     ATTACK MODE: Arrow                 ATTACK MODE: Fiery Explosion
     ATTACK FORCE: Minor                ATTACK FORCE: Great
     ATTACK SPEED: Medium               ATTACK SPEED: Slow
     ATTACK INTERVAL: Average           ATTACK INTERVAL: Long
     LIFESPAN: Short                    LIFESPAN: Long
     NUMBER ON SIDE: 2                  NUMBER ON SIDE: 1
          GOLEM                              KNIGHT
     MOVEMENT: Ground-3                 MOVEMENT: Ground-3
     SPEED: Slow                        SPEED: Normal
     ATTACK MODE: Boulder               ATTACK MODE: Club
     ATTACK FORCE: Great                ATTACK FORCE: Minor
     ATTACK SPEED: Slow                 ATTACK SPEED: Instant
     ATTACK INTERVAL: Long              ATTACK INTERVAL: Very short
     LIFESPAN: Long                     LIFESPAN: Short
     NUMBER ON SIDE: 2                  NUMBER ON SIDE: 7









     THE OPPOSING FORCES
     DARK SIDE
     SORCERESS                            SHAPESHIFTER
     MOVEMENT: Teleport-3                 MOVEMENT: FLY-5
     SPEED:    Normal                     SPEED: Varies
     ATTACK MODE: Lightening Bolt         ATTACK MODE: Varies
     ATTACK FORCE: Moderate               ATTACK FORCE: Varies
     ATTACK SPEED: Fast                   ATTACK SPEED: Varies
     ATTACK INTERVAL: Average             ATTACK INTERVAL Varies
     LIFESPAN: Average                    LIFESPAN: Unknown
     NUMBER ON SIDE: 1                    NUMBER ON SIDE: 1

     BASILISK                             DRAGON
     MOVEMENT: Ground-3                   MOVEMENT: Fly-4
     SPEED: Normal                        SPEED: Normal
     ATTACK MODE: Eye Beam                ATTACK MODE: Fiery Breath
     ATTACK FORCE: Great                  ATTACK FORCE: Very Great
     ATTACK SPEED: Fast                   ATTACK SPEED: Medium
     ATTACK INTERVAL: Short               ATTACK INTERVAL: Long
     LIFESPAN: Short                      LIFESPAN: Very Long
     NUMBER ON SIDE: 2                    NUMBER ON SIDE: 1

     MANTICORE                            BANSHEE
     MOVEMENT: Ground-3                   MOVEMENT: Fly-3
     SPEED: Normal                        SPEED: Normal
     ATTACK MODE: Tail Spikes             ATTACK MODE: Scream
     ATTACK FORCE: Minor                  ATTACK FORCE: Moderate
     ATTACK SPEED: Slow                   ATTACK SPEED: Instant
     ATTACK INTERVAL: Average             ATTACK INTERVAL: Long
     LIFESPAN: Average                    LIFESPAN: Average
     NUMBER ON SIDE: 2                    NUMBER ON SIDE: 2

     TROLL                                GOBLIN
     MOVEMENT: Ground-3                   MOVEMENT: Ground-3
     SPEED: Slow                          SPEED: Normal
     ATTACK MODE: Boulder                 ATTACK MODE: Club
     ATTACK FORCE: Great                  ATTACK FORCE: Minor
     ATTACK SPEED: Slow                   ATTACK SPEED: Instant
     ATTACK INTERVAL: Long                ATTACK INTERVAL: Very Short
     LIFESPAN: Long                       LIFESPAN: Short
     NUMBER ON SIDE: 2                    NUMBER ON SIDE 7
