-+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-
 | The LoOnS: Python  Wizz  The Guardian  Action Man  Chuck  T-Leaf  Fraz |
-+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-
                                                          26/10/93
                           PROUDLY PRESENT

                    Full Docs To : Alien Breed II

                            Typed By Fraz


 It's been nine long years since the first outbreak when Inter Planetary
 Corps members, Johnson and Stone, crushed an alien invasion on a remote 
 space research station. For nine years the horror has ceased.
            Times have changed in many ways - the threat of war no longer
 hangs like a dark shroud over the Federation Colonies, every member aware
 of the possibility of invasion, every one afraid , every one now together
 .... safe.
 The IPC has now grown , strengthened, mainly due to the alliance of the six
 major races in the Federation Colonies. Because of this, the IPC became more 
 respected due to the fact that one race were far more likely to respect the
 law if one of their own was giving the orders.
 Problems, it seemed, were long gone and the Federation could look forward to
 an indefinite peace.
                           But Johnson and Stone, those heroes who witnessed
 such terror, could not rest easy...
 Reports of problems at Federation Colony - Alpha Five - home of several 
 hundred crew members, has been transmitting emergency signals for the past
 few hours. Federation H.Q. fears the worst, it's almost as if history is
 repeating itself.... The Four strongest members of the IPC's marine force
 are called together, but just Two will make the journey to FCA5 - their
 mission brief unclear.
            
                    The horror is about to continue         
 

         GAME OPTIONS
       ----------------

 Number Of Players
 
 You can select between 1 player and 2 players (simultaneous). If you are 
 playing the 2 player game then you must connect a joystick to port 0 where
 the mouse is usually connected (really ??). The game is best played in the 
 2 player game mode. default is 1 player.

 Skill Level

 You can select between normal and difficult. The skill level depicts the
 strength of the enemy opposition within the game itself. default is normal.

 Share Credits

 If you wish, you can share any credits found in the game between 2 players
 if playing in a 2 player game. This depends upon the style of game you prefer
 to play. Default is off.

 Select Character

 You may choose which of the four IPC characters you wish to play. Each starts 
 with different weapons and slightly different abilities - You will have to 
 find these out for yourself. Default are Johnson and Stone but you can also
 select  Ruffertoo (an intelligent lizard-lifeform) and Zollux (a tough war
 robot).
 You may find it wise to experiment with combinations of the characters that
 best suit your playing style.
 When you are happy with your selections, it's time to start the game.


         COMMENCING PLAY
       -------------------

 When you begin the game, you will be lowered by a Federation dropship onto
 the landing pad of the Alpha-5 base. Your mission will be as per the brief
 outlined by the Federation  - You MUST follow all instructions to the letter
 Information within the complex is scarce and you are advised to make best
 use of anything you may find. The Intex Networks "INFOBASE" is a good source
 of further reading.
 Amongst the items you will discover will be keys, ammo clips and first aid,
 if playing in 2 player mode you are advised to ration these accordingly.

         CONTROLS WITHIN THE GAME 
       ----------------------------

   
 Control is on joystick. Push the stick in the direction that you wish your
 player to travel. pressing on the fire button will fire your current weapon
  providing it is armed with ammunition. (Ammo cn be picked up or bought via
 the computer network).

 During the game, the following keys take effect.

 SPACEBAR = 

 Nearest player logs onto computer terminal (INTEX 4000).

 M =

 Use hand map (use space to toggle between  different zooms if available).
 Note that due to security reasons, the intex 4000 will not display deck-maps
 and you will have to buy a scanner for this purpose.   

 RIGHT ALT =

 Toggle through player 2's weapons.

 LEFT ALT =

 Toggle through player 1's weapons.

 ESC =

 Quit back to main menu.

        
      INTEX 4000 TERMINAL
    -----------------------

 When logged onto the computer network,you can order extra weaponry,key packs
 etc. Weapons are available in three stages, each more powerful but each stage
 using up more ammo - it's your decision.
 Use the joystick to move through the options available and the button to
 select.


      WEAPON MENU  

 Select and purchase a new weapon/utility (credit dependent).

      TOOLS MENU

 Select and purchase new equipment (credit dependent)

      MISSION BRIEF

 Current mission overview

      INFO BASE

 Information database (recommended reading)

      GAME STATS

 Statistics and current game status

      ABORT

 Leave terminal and continue game



     HELP AND INFORMATION
   ------------------------

 Although details are scarce, we can confirm that mission teleport codes exist
 and these should be entered into the computer network whereby you will be
 teleported to the appropriate mission. Using the main menu will suffice.
 Hand maps are deemed essential to successfully completing your mission. Using
 the main menu will suffice.
 Doors may be blasted open if you have a good enough weapon, some doors are
 much stronger than others.


      CREDITS
    -----------

 Alien Breed II was designed and written specifically for the AMIGA 
 by the following team

 ANDREAS TADIC  ------ PROGRAMMING, DESIGN
 
 RICO HOLMES    ------ GRAPHICS, DESING

 ALLISTER BRIMBLE ---- SOUND FX, MUSIC

 LYNETTE READE  ------ SOUND SAMPLES

 MARTYN BROWN   ------ PROJECT MANAGEMENT

 FRAZ           ------ LoONY DoC TYPER


                    NOW GO BUY THE GAME !!!!!

                                       
                                 FIN



