                          SPACE QUEST 3 - SOLUTION

By RAIDER of ATTRIUM. Edited by PARASITE.


       Looks familar ehh,O.K.....I admit I ripped this from IBB DOCS DISK
       I'm a bastard then,what are they going to do,rip my balls out !!!!

       Just a little intro. before we begin.I decided to play this game
       primarily because it's easy,that is if you think logically and if
       you could be bothered waiting for each screen to load then you'll
       be sure to beat it.It took me about 2 days after I received this
       little beauty (Australian colloquial for oversea - ers) to conquer
       it.This was quite an achievement for me as I have never actually
       played any game for this long a time.

       Anyway,nearly to the interesting part ??

       Like the previous Sierra titles ie. Kings Quest etc... there is a
       heavy dependence on text input as well as general observation.So
       always keep your mind open when examining anything.

       O.K.,enough verbal diahorrea(I hope I spelt that right)....

       Lets begin..

       1.Screen 1 - Warp motivator here,can't pick up yet !
       2.From screen 1 go right to the chasis of an old spacecraft,if you
         continue right you will enter a tunnel,get leftmost wire,you'll
         need it,no need to continue right.
       3.Return to screen 1 then move down (towards monitor),you'll enter
         a spaceship graveyard ie. higher prevalence of crunched ships here.
         There is a hidden ladder behind foremost junk on the left of the
         screen.You cannot access yet.
       4.Go right from graveyard,to find lift,nothing of value here,so just
         walk up to lift and go for a ride.
       5.Lift will dump you on a conveyor belt thats headed for a mincer.
         Quite obviously stand up and jump off !! (I love the facial expres.)
       6.Don't go right,go left,otherwise you'll fall off and splatter.
       7.Continue left until you reach a machine,situated just inside robot
         control HQ.Climb in and guess what comes next.
       8.You'll notice a U-Turn in HQ.to the left,use it and leave HQ,
         ensuring you're on the backmost rail,travelling right.
         Go just beyond the entrance of HQ,about mid-screen,you're above the
         Warp motivator,press the button in the machine to pick it up.
       9.When you finally have the Warp,continue right to the U-Turn and stop
         just before you completely come right around to the foremost rail,
         press button and you'll deposit the Warp Motivator in your ship.
      10.Continue left to Control HQ.on foremost rail.Don't hang around here to
         long as Mr.Robot gets fucked off and ventilates your head.
         Stand up,near platform to exit machine and fall in chute.
      11.Right,you find yourself in an underground room,illuminated by lights.
         Move west (left) to hole in wall,get reactor.Leave the room via a
         ladder on the right.Guess what!, your south from where you started.
         Go to screen 1 and proceed right through tunnel.You'll get mugged
         by a rat,who in turn takes your wire and reactor,bastard !!
         Return to the place you found the reactor and once again look in hole.
         Get wire and reactor and exit screen,this time taking the ladder.
         Proceed to tunnel again,you won't be mugged twice.
      12.Continue right from tunnel to find robot head in next screen.Enter
         head carefully through the eye.There is a drop in the foremost screen
         so a bit of precision is required here.
      13.You'll find two spacecraft,yours is the middle one.Move to the more
         visible side of the ship,use ladder and climb it.Enter hatch.
      14.Examination of computer in ship reveals ship has no power.Examine
         floor to find an open and empty reactor chamber.Put reactor in
         compartment and then use the wire you have to complete the conection.
      15.Move to cockpit,via mouse then examine the computer screen,this is
         the control panel for the ship.
      16.In this order press - Engines,Radar,Take Off.
      17.Go to weapons system,put front shields on,press fire.You're home free,
         well out of the ship anyway.
      18.Go to navigation system,scan and lock onto Pheelbut.Travel via
         light speed.A terminator has been sent to destroy you,so watch it.
      19.On Pheelbut (I'm fucked if I can remember the right names) don't go
         down.If you do,keep pressing towards the top of the screen,you'll
         move so don't panic.(Otherwise a rather large snake eats you)
      20.Find World of Wonders novelty shop,no directions I can remember except
         right and up a bit.Its situated under a giant metallic creature.You'll
         find it.Also avoid Scorpozoid as it's randomly found.
      21.Enter shop after little animation feature.Sell gem,barter to exactly
         425 buckazoids.Buy Orat on a stick,Thermo underwear and flight hat.
      22.Exit.You'll be found by Terminator,don't worry he gives a 10 second
         head start.Go left,enter Mog via foot.
      23.Use elevator to enter double platform room,go to uppermost platform
         and wait behind pulley ie.your facing east (right).When robot comes
         within range,let him have it,push pulley at him - presto,scrap metal.
         Go down to 1st platform,examine scrap metal and get invisibility belt.
      23.Go back to ship and leave planet..no need to return.
      24.Go to Monolith Hamburgers.Buy Fun Meal Deal.Sit down and eat.You'll
         find a Monolith Decoder Ring in this.Play video machine,play until
         secret message appears.
 It reads
            'Help us,we are being held captive by Scumsoft on the small
             moon of Pestulon.An impenetrable force field surrounds the
             moon.It must first be deactivated.It's origin is unknown to
             us.Scumsoft security is armed with jello pistols.We're counting
             on you whoever you are.
             SIGNED - Two guys in trouble.

      25.Leave Monolith.Go to other planet,the hot volcanic one.
      26.Before leaving ship,wear underwear to protect yourself from heat.
      27.From ship follow a kind of left/southerly pattern to a rather
         unstable rock bridge.You'll see what I mean.
      28.After crossing rock bridge proceed south (towards monitor),making
         sure you stay hidden from the two pirates.After they leave,look
         through telescope,get pole and search crate for detonator.Get it and
         continue right.
      29.From next screen continue right again - go behind rock on east
         side of screen to exit.Go up (very hard to go up - probably my
         worn mouse) and continue till you find a crater.Enter by going
         behind rightmost rock.
      30.In crater go down steps,go right and climb ladder to access
         generator.Drop detonator in hole.Climb down and get the fuck out
         of there.Go back via the way you came.You'll find the bridge has
         collapsed,so use the pole you picked up to pole vault across.Go
         back to ship...no need to visit this planet again.
      31.Scan,you'll now find the moon Pestulon.Go there.Land,put on
         invisibility belt and use to enter complex.When inside,press
         the button to enter the hallway.In hallway,find closet on leftmost
         wall,enter,drop gear and wear janitors coveralls,you also find
         a trash vaporizer.
      32.There are two doors on the right,you can only enter one.The other is
         locked,you need a Keycard and a picture to enter.Enter accounting
         office.You must vaporize all surrounding trash,failure to do so will
         result in being discovered and zapped.
      33.Go left,using vaporizer always on trash bins.When cleared get
         the picture on the wall,it's real ugly,you'll see it.Anyway photocopy
         it and put the picture back.
      34.Find your way so that you can go up from the entrance screen,it's a
         bit of stuffing around but you'll get there.Go up to find the ugly mug
         himself,vaporize his bin and exit through the top right of the screen.
      35.The Keycard is on his desk,go back and you'll find he's gone.Get the
         keycard and find your way back to the hallway.
      36.Go to the locked door.Insert card.After prompt,hold the picture up.
      37.Enter locked door.The next screen reveals our captives,press button
         to link the bridge to the platform.Use vaporizer to free captives
         from the jello.You can't do fuck now,just wait.
      38.You are captured and taken to the arena,killing our friendly mug is
         up to you.The battle robots look quite good.
      39.Killing Mr.Robot 2 results in a hole in the arena,our little captives
         are also in the arena,so don't worry about'em.They look after
         themselves quite nicely.
      40.Back at the ship,examine screen,press on 'attack speed' and go
         to weapons systems.Wait.Kill five ships from the rear,using shields
         to discretion.If you win...bango that as they say is that....
