LOTUS PLAYERS GUIDE

Docs typed by Nasty Boy.


THE QUICK GETAWAY

To grab as many positions as possible at the beginning,use the pitlane -
the other players completely ignore it! Watch out though - stay too 
long in there and you`ll automatically slow down!

GEARBOX INFO

As the instructions say,although the automatic Lotus doesn`t accelerate
quite as well as the manual,it can still reach the same maximum speeds
as the manual.Since changing up and down can be a real pain at times,its
best to stick to the automatic gearbox - its still possible to reach the
end of the hard tracks with it.If you are desperate to use a manual
gearbox,always choose FX rather than muzak at the start of a game.This
way its easier to tell when to change gear by the sound of the engine. 

LOTUS HANDLING

Quite a lot of people seem to accelerate and just hope for the best.This
is a bit stupid as some of the cornering required can be handled with
ease just by laying off the accelerator.The handling of your Lotus
improves and this is the best time to gain a few positions.

TWO-PLAYER TACTICS

One great tactic to remember is to slow down when taking corners and
steer into the oncoming path of your opponent.If he doesn`t wham into
the back of your car,he`s a lot more likely to zoom off the road and
into a wayside obstacle losing loadsa time! Just remember though,one of
you must make the top ten for you to progress to the next race!

REFUELING

Some of the tracks require a lot more fuel than can be initiallly packed
into your Lotus`s fuel tank.On the vast majority of races refueling is
best reserved for the last lap - this way you can best judge how much
time you need to spend in the pits.When entering the pit lane,the best
way to slow down is to just clip a roadside obstacle.If all goes well
you shouldn`t end up off the road,but should slow down to a stop rather
quickly...

LANDSCAPE LARKS

Some of Lotus`s races dont take place on the road! Other terrain
includes sand and ice.Ice is simple.Just play on as usual and use the 
roadside obstacles to gauge where you are on the track.The other cars
automatically go slower as well so victory should be simple.The steering
is very unresponsive on sandy tracks so lay off the accelerator on
corners - or else! 

CHEATS!!!!!

In a two-player game,type player ones name as FIELDS OF FIRE and player
twos as IN A BIG COUNTRY .Even if neither of you get into the top
ten,you`ll both still qualify!!
Or for an `alternative` game,you can type MONSTER as player one and
SEVENTEEN as player two.Fly the cosmos.......

End.