                        LOTUS ESPRIT TURBO CHALLENGE

Typed in by PARADOX. Edited by PARAITE.


Lotus Esprit Turbo Challenge is a one or two player racing game that Gremlin
believe is one of the fastest,smoothest and most addictive arcade style
racing games of all time.The ultimate aim of the game is to qualify for the
Lotus License, which will only be issued to the elite band of individuals
that complete all thirty two tracks and finish top of the racers table at
the end of all that motoring.Details of how to get your Lotus License once
you have achieved this mammoth task are given later in this manual.

THE OPTIONS:
The main options are presented on the Options screen.To make a choice,simply
move the joystick up and down to highlight the option you wish to alter, and
then move your joystick left or right.
The options available are as follows:

  -Difficulty: The choices here are Easy, Medium, Difficult and Practice.On
the easy level, there are seven races to complete, on medium there are ten,
and fifteen on the difficult level.The practice option allows you to practice
your driving on a specially designed track.

  -Number of players: One or two.

  -Name of player: Type in your name on this option, after deleting the name
   that's already present on the menu.

  -Manual Gears/Computerised Gears: Chose computerised or manual gears.Normal
   manual gears are much harder to get to grips with initially, but the
   acceleration and top speed of the computerised gears are less than when
   using manual gears.

  -Normal/Alternative controls: Two methods of joystick controls are featured
   in Lotus, and this allows you to chose between the two.
   We believe that the alternative method will give you more enjoyment once
   it is learned, but the 'normal' one is the more usual one normally found
   in racing games.

  -Normal Joystick controls:
    Accelerate
    Brake
    Change up a gear
    Change down a gear
    Alternative joystick controls

  -Alternative Joystick controls:
    Accelerate
    Brake
    Steer Left
    Steer Right
    Change up a gear
    Change down a gear

  -Mouse controls:
   (Computerised gears only.)
    Left Mouse button: Accelerate
    Right Mouse button: Brake

RACING:
On each level, the player will need to finish in the top ten drivers in order
to qualify for the next race.On the two players game, if either driver
finishes in the top ten, then both racersare carried forward to the next
race.The players next starting position will be determined by his finishing
position on the previous race, which will be inverted.So, for example, if the
player finishes first, he will start the race in twentieth place, and if he
finishes second he will start the next race in nineteenth, and so on.On some
of the later tracks, the driver will come across some pretty nasty hazards
both on and off the roads, and some of the tracks will throw up some pretty
nasty suprises.

PITSTOPS:
Some tracks are too long to complete without stopping for fuel, and so
pitsops will be required.These are always to be found just after the start/
finish line, and are indicated by the yellow spannersign.In order to carry
a fuel stop, pull into the pit lane and brake.You will then go to another
screen where you will see your fuel tank being filled, the amount being
indicated  on a meter on the right hand side of the screen.You can leave
this screen as soon as you think you have enough fuel by hitting the fire
button.

QUALIFYING FOR THE LOTUS LICENSE:
  Once you have completed Lotus Esprit Turbo Challenge, you will be presented
with a special message. You must write this message in full on the enclosed
card (No photocopies wil be accepted), and fill in all the other details
requested on the card.
Once this is completed, return it to Gremlin Graphics, and your license will
be forwarded to you. (This dosen't count to you PIRATE!)

End.
