Sewer Software and DR.J present.....


                               STAR RAY 
                           by Logotron Ltd


  The story so far ...

Since  the  first  time  you saw a Star Warrior  on  some  TV  space-opera, 
battling  valiantly against the evil Citron and Tauran  empires,  you  have 
nurtured a dream... to become a StarRay pilot!  Now, you've sailed past the 
acceptance tests,  you've survived the trainer-sims,  you've done the dummy 
runs on the ice planet Charon - at last, you've made it!

The  first mission is on the planet Gorbaxa.   It's a place where the  used 
Kryptium - Energy Cells from the mammoth Star Cruisers are  stored.   Since 
one of the surviving robotships from the Kryx Wars dumped unused  Kryptium- 
Cells  there 2 years ago,  the place has needed a 24 hour guard- the  cells 
are  priceless and dangerous.   The Watch at Gorbaxa is just your  kind  of 
mission.

A few months later, you'll be on your way to Sirion.  It's a holiday planet 
where  dense  impenetrable jungle is growing at such a  frenzied  rate,  it 
could overgrow the hi-speed rail tracks within hours.   Here,  your mission 
is to protect the forest exterminator robots against the vicious wildlife.

If you're still alive after that,  the next mission is Sharlon,  where  the 
ozone layer requires your protection.  And then...


  LOADING

1.  Turn off the computer and disconnect all peripherals except monitor and 
    joystick
2.  Place the disk in drive DF0: and switch on.
3.  StarRay will now autoboot and enter demo mode.

Note:  leave write-protect tab closed if you wish to save high scores.

  THE GAME

To commence game, press fire button.  Control is by Joystick or Keyboard.

     Movement - Cursor (Arrow) Keys or Joystick.
     Fire - Alternate or Right Mouse Button.
     Vaporizers - Caps Lock or Left Mouse Button or Second Joystick Button

Special Functions

     F2 - Music on/off
     F3 - Sound FX on/off
     F4 - Switches between 50 Hz and 60 Hz.   Note:   StarRay  defaults  to 
          operating at monitor frequency 60 Hz,  but some  televisions  may 
          require 50 Hz - do not adjust your set, just toggle with F4.

  SCREEN LAYOUT

Below the play area,t you will find the Radar Scan.   You are the whit  dot 
near  the center,  the installations you are protecting are  the  off-white 
dots on the bottom.   When these are perverted by the alien  Landers,  they 
become red.  Any other objects on the radar are active and hostile.

Shield Bar - signifying the energy supply to your shielding.
Vaporizers Store - indicating how many are left.
The Score.

WHAT YOU MUST DO

Your  mission is always to protect the Installations on the  ground.   When 
these  have gone,  the game is over.   Installations are different on  each 
level - energy cells, forest robots, antigravity generators, etc.

The  most common aliens are the Landers,  which not only fly  around,  they 
shoot  at you as well,  and land on the installations which  they  pervert.  
For example,  in the jungles of Sirion, Landers turn the installations into 
Gun Emplacements.  Perverted installations should be attacked.

Some  Landers  leave a Bonus Ball when you shoot  them.   These  should  be 
collected (touch them).   The StarRay fighter is enhanced according to  the 
letter on the ball.

     A - Improved acceleration
     V - Maximum speed is increased
     T - You can fire more rapidly
     P - Your laser gets greater penetrating power
     C - Continuous fire for 100 shots
     I - Invulnerability for 10 seconds
     B - Bonus points

If  you hand around doing little,  the vicious Blue Hunters will  come  for 
you.   If  you  are good,  you get bonus Air Buses.   Shoot them  down  and 
collect the bonus objects.

On your first mission at Gorbaxa,  you'll encounter Krellian mother  ships.  
These  seem  harmless,  but when shot they break up into many  small  UFOs, 
which chase behind you in your exhaust stream.

There are 7 missions in all, increasing in difficulty.  Look forward to the 
living  crystals,   radar  interference  satellites,   the  silicon  worms, 
collapsing  cave passages,  blood-thirsty plants,  deadly guided  missiles, 
etc., etc...

  THE OPTIONS SCREEN

This is activated by pressing any key on the keyboard.  This offers you:

Resume Game - from exactly where you left it.

View Game Screen - enabling screen photos and position analysis.

Sound On/Off - toggles sound

Restart at Level - This enables you to start on any of the first 4  levels, 
but only on level 1 is your energy maximised.

Last  Game Option - Test have shown that StarRay gives pleasure to  certain 
persons.   For these there is the following problem:  Those who have to get 
out of bed early in the morning,  must actually stop playing at some time - 
but how,  when their fingers are itching for the High Score?   For these we 
have invented this option.   Activate Last Game Option,  lose,  and nothing 
works anymore.   To continue playing,  one must load again - and thus there 
is time enough to glance at the clock and jump disgusted into bed.

