                                FUTURE WARS

Typed in by PHANTOM LORD. Edited by PARASITE.


Beeep... Beeep... The strident tone of the control monitor woke her out of
a light doze. She froze for an instant, surprised by her brief spell of
inattention. She concentrated hard on the screen and began to follow the
frenzied movement of the green cursor. It blinked twice then disappeared,
loudly signifying the end of its activity. 1304 !! She examined the four
figures traced on the cathode screen as if she were discovering them for
the first time. "1304 ! My God, THEY'VE DONE IT !", she shouted.

Baley put the file down. The situation was disturbing. The news from the
front over the last two months had been alarming and the Crughons' were
becoming ever more active on Earth. "Blasted Crughons !"he thought, "We'll
never have enough time !". After more than a century of bitter fighting,
the human race had seen its proud colonies fall one by one. Now the
Earthlings had dug themselves in on the last free planet and were
desperately trying to fight off the constant attacks of their deadly
enemies. Baley could not stop himself thinking about the terrible fate in
store for them if the SDI did not hold out. For two generations, the
magnetic field which jealously guarded the planet had unfailingly succeeded
in repulsing the Crughons' increasingly virulent attacks. "Heavens ! I hope
they can hold out !". A flood of old memories poured into his mind. The
images had become blurred but, strangely, the emotions retained their
tragic intensity. He remembered their distress... the mad dash across
space... the return to the origins of an Earth which had been abandones a
thousand years previously... Lo'Ann, his daughter, then two years old who
snuggled down in the arms of her mother, Ellie. He had always admired his
wife's courage, and her confidence which she communicated to others had
enabled them to endure the great privations of their new existence...

Reconstruction had been difficult with the few resources which the planet
still possessed. But SDI was worth any sacrifice... because SDI was their
last chance.

The gabble of the intercom rudely awakened him from his daydreams.

- "Father ?"
- "Yes, Lo'Ann... what news ?"
- "We have just detected a Crughon presence and the earthly controller is
  positive. They have turned the clock back to 1304, the Middle Ages !!"
- "1304 ! Then if my fears were right... No, I daren't think about it...
  Lo'Ann ! Go to the Chronoporters, we must find out what's happening"

The chronoporting room as buzzing with activity. Two simultaneous flashes
of light illuminated the room for a fraction of a second... Two silhouettes
tembled for a moment then disappeared forever.

The last act of this tragic wwar had begun. Historians would call this
phase "THE MENACE".

I. BACKUP COPIES
We advise you to make backups of your origional diskettes and only use the
copies to play the game.

II. AMIGA 500, 1000 AND 2000
(If using an Amiga 500 without expanded memory unplug the external drive if
necessary)

1. PLAYING ON DISKETTES

AMIGA 1000
- Switch off the computer.
- Insert the Kickstart diskette into the DF0 drive and switch on the
  computer.
- When the computer asks you to insert the Workbench diskette insert Game
  diskette No. 1.

AMIGA 500 and 2000
- Switch off the computer.
- Insert diskette No. 1 in the DF0 drive and switch on the computer.

2. HOW TO PLAY ON THE HARD DISK

INSTALLATION
Check to see that you have more than 1080 kilobytes free on your hard disk.
Create a new directory and copy the contents of each of the diskettes into
it.

STARTUP FROM THE HARD DISK
- Click twice on the hard disk icon.
- Click twice on the directory icon containing the game
- Click twice on the icon DELPHINE.PRG.

IV. GAME SYSTEM
"Future Wars" is the first DELPHINE SOFTWARE programme to use the
Cinematique system.
This is a new generation games system which is entirely mouse-controlled
and is designed to make the game as exciting as possible.

MOVING THE HERO
The character you are playing moves across the screen as you wish. All you
need to do to get him to move is to use the mouse to take the cursor to the
spot you want him to go and press the left hand button of the mouse. The
hero will then move to the designated spot.
Your character will stop on the way if an obstacle blocks his path. All you
have to do is designate a different spot which will enable him to move
round the obstacle.

THE ACTIVATION MENU
Through the hero, you can take a wide variety of actions despite the very
simple activation menu.
The activation menu is displayed when you press the right-hand button of
the mouse.
Move the menu bar to the chosen action and press the left-hand button.

You can take the following actions :

EXAMINE
Enables you to obtain more details about an object in your
environment.
When the mouse cursor becomes a +, choose the object to be examined and
press the left-hand mouse button.
Note : Just as in real life, your character will not be able to see some of
the details if he is too far away from the object he is looking at.

TAKE
Is used when you want to collect objects that seem to be useful. When the
mouse cursor becomes a +, choose the object to be examined and press the
left-hand mouse button.

INVENTORY
Tells you at all times what objects you have. Press one of the two mouse
buttons to quit the inventory.

USE
Allows you to take action using an object you own to affect an object or
person in your environment.

For instance:
You have a key which you want to use to open a door : USE KEY on DOOR.
You want to give money to your boss (!!!) : USE MONEY on BOSS.
You need something to drink : USE CUP on HERO.

OPERATE
Lets you take action on an object or person.

For example,
open the door... OPERATE DOOR
press a button ... OPERATE BUTTON.

When the mouse cursor changes into a +, select the object on which you want
to take action and press the left-hand button of the mouse.

SPEAK
Will serve to help you talk to the people you are going to meet. When the
mouse cursor changes to a +, indicate the character to whom you want to
speak and press the left-hand button of the mouse.

THE USER MENU
This menu offers functions which are not part of the game itself but which
will, for instance, allow you to save, make backups or reload previous
sessions.

You can access this menu by pressing the two mouse buttons simultaneously.

PAUSE
Will put the game on hold until you press another mouse button.

RESTART
Enables you to start the session again from the very beginning.

BACKUP DRIVE
Is used for indicating to the programme which disk drive you want to use to
make backup.

LOAD
To continue playing a game you have backed up.
When the programme asks you to insert the backup diskette, the list of
saved sessions which are on the backup diskette will be displayed.
Move the mouse on to the name of the session to be loaded and confirm.
(We suggest you have a blank formatted diskette ready)

SAVE
To save to diskette the game you are in the process of playing, when the
programme prompts you, insert the backup diskette.
A catalogue containing the list of sessions already on the diskette will be
displayed. Choose a free spot and confirm. If there is no room left in the
catalogue use a new backup diskette or back up over an existing session.

Note : You can back up a session as long as your hero is alive.
Consequently, we advise you to use this option regularly and each time the
situation is potentially dangerous. During some animation sequences when
you are not able to control your character, you will not be able to save
the game. But be assured that nothing very dangerous will happen during
these sequences, unless it already too late to take preventitive action.

ADVICE TO NEW PLAYERS
If you are playing an adventure game for the first time, here are a few
suggestions.

¤ Carefully examine all the objects on the screen at every new point in the
  game.
¤ Zoom in closer to the objects you are examining because no one is
  infallible and our hero may only see some of the fine details if he looks
  at an object up close.
¤ Read the message displayed very carefully because they may give you
  important clues on how to proceed to the mext step in the adventure.
¤ Use every opportunity you can to take action.
¤ Talk to everyone you can, they may be able to help you choose the best
  route.
¤ Backup your game as soon as you sense danger.

If in spite of all this, you find yourself stuck at any point in the game,
check to see whether you have forgotten an object or if you have forgotten
to do something earlier on...
Every problem has a solution.

ATTENTION
The following is for new players who may have difficulty getting started in
the game.

Experienced players need not read this page.

¤ The game begins on scaffolding.
¤ Examine the bucket at your feet.
¤ Pick up the bucket.
¤ Walk to the far left of the scaffolding.
¤ Examine the red arrow which appears on the control panel displayed on the
  large screen.
¤ There is a half-open window at the top right-hand edge of the screen.
¤ Walk towards the window.
¤ When you are facing it, examine the window.
¤ Activate the window.
¤ You should be entering the building... but if not, click on the window.
¤ You will find yourself in a small room, walk up to the central door and
  activate the door.
¤ Now carry on...
