                        ADVANCED DESTROYER SIMULATOR

PORTED FROM THE ST, AND EDITED FOR THE AMIGA BY -SCOOTER- AND FIXED BY RYGAR.
TYPED BY LAWZ.  Edited by PARASITE.


A.D.S. is the first naval simulator using new techniques of animation in
filled 3D. The game portrays the main naval engagements of World War II
during which the Destroyers of the Royal Navy played a major part.

The different missions you will have to carry out will take place in:
1 - The Mediterranean; from the English base at Malta, located in a zone
    occupied by the enemy (Italians to the north, Germans to the south).

2 - The English Channel; from the English bases, you will help evacuate
    Allied forces gathered in Dunkirk.

3 - The North Sea; your mission is to sink the enemy vessels which are hiding
    in the Norwegian Fjords.

You will be in overall control - you will have to manoeuvre to perfection to
avoid being sunk, take control of attacking the enemy and defending against
them when the situation calls for it.

There are 18 available missions preset with a date/time and a precise target;
and there are DELTA missions, in which you are the one to choose your target
in an environment and date which differs each time.

The admiralty and Admiral Walkirie are always on your side to report any ship
spotted by the R.A.F.

You can alter the level of realism of the simulation, so younger players can
have as much fun. But we advise older players not to change the preset
parameters so they can get more from the simulation.

    DESTROYER
                        Category       :  H.M.S. Onslaught
       +                Launched       :  1939
  |'   | -{]-           Type           :  DD 231
\---------------/       Displacement   :  2200 Tons, 3200 Tons loaded
 \ o o o o o o /        Length         :  110m
  ------------          Breadth        :  12m
                        Draught        :  4.80m
                        Propulsion     :  2 Propellers, Gear Turbines
                                          60,000 HP
                        Speed          :  35 Knots
                        Armament       :  3 Turrets each with 2
                                          120mm cannons
                                          2 Torbedo Tubes, with 4
                                          tubes each.

The DD-231 was one of the first Torpedo-Tube Destroyers of World War II, and
176 ships were built to the same pattern. Easy to recognise by the shape of
it's funnel, it participated in battles in the North Sea, in the English
Channel and in the Mediterranean.

THE COMMAND POST
From this view you should be able to see the wide open spaces of the ocean.
From left to right on the control panel the features are as follows...

------------------------------------------------------------------------
I                                   I                                   I
I                                   I                                   I
I         ^ The blue seas ^         I       ^ The blue seas ^           I
I                                   I                                   I
I                                   I                                   I
I                                   I                                   I
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Radar          fuel    &     speed        compass      depth gauge

(Green circle)       (white circles)         [-S---E-]        ===
                                                              =-=
                                Transmitter                   =-=
                               (Big Speaker)                  =-=
  RADAR     &    SONAR                                        =-=
    O  indicators  O                                          =-=

THE RADIO
The radio allows you to receive information from:
The admiralty (H.Q.) located in Malta for the Mediterranean and by the Thames
for the English Channel and the North Sea.

The engine room, about possible damage.

The look-out man, to get information about ships spotted

THE BINOCULARS
Doubles your range of vision.

DAMAGE
Your destroyer can suffer damage during a battle. This damage can affect:-

 RADAR -         you will no longer be able to spot ships on the radar screen.
 SONAR -         you will no longer be able to spot submarines on the sonar
                 screen.
 PUMPS -         you lose the ability to pump water out of the ship; could
                 lead to the destruction of the ship if a leak occurs at the
                 same time.
 CANNONS -       one or more turrets are no longer operational. Be careful, if
                 the cannons overheat, the turret will explode.
 RADIO -         radio messages become broken and garbled.
 TORPEDO TUBES - one or more tubes are no longer operational. You'll have to
                 wait until you dock at base to have them repaired.
 RUDDER -        you lose all steering. Most of the time the crew members can
                 repair this type of damage.
 ENGINE -        the ship is without power; a sitting duck until repairs are
                 carried out.

NB: All repairs are carried out automatically by the crew members, you do not
    have to intervene.

CANNON FIRE
Your destroyer is equipped with 3 turrets, two forward, one aft. Each turret
has two 120mm cannons. These turrets can rotate 270 degrees and fire 2 shells
simultaneously. 300 shells are in stock. In every turret there is a
temperature indicator - do not overheat the cannons or they will explode.

TORPEDO FIRE
Your destroyer is also equipped with 2 torpedo stations (4 tubes each), one on
the port side and one on the starboard side. The tubes can rotate 90 degrees,
and each time they fire, 4 torpedoes are launched. 80 torpedoes are in stock.
Torpedoes have an impact far more powerful than the cannon shells. One or two
torpedoes in the right spot can destroy a ship when otherwise 10 or 20 shells
would be required for the same result.

ATTACK STRATEGY
The tactics you should use to attack an enemy vessel depend on the category
of the ship. For example, a FREIGHTER is somewhat easier to sink than a
CRUISER, for the simple reason that it cannot shoot back, and therefore you
can attack it with much more directness, getting closer and sailing slower.

To sink an enemy vessel you must bear in mind differences like speed:

15-20 Knots for a freighter or a tanker
30-35 Knots for a destroyer
32-37 Knots for a cruiser

You can carry out a frontal attack on an unarmed Freighter or Tanker and sink
it with some successful cannon fire. With a Destroyer or a Cruiser it's better
to start by launching a torpedo either to port or starboard and by keeping a
course parallel with the enemy ship at a similar speed. Keep your distance -
the enemy have guns too and are not afraid to use them, and the closer you
get, the more accurate they are.

Two or three torpedos may be enough to sink a Destroyer whereas you may need
four or five to sink a Cruiser. A torpedo launched at the right spot can break
the rudder of a ship, or even stop it. Then you can sink it with cannon fire.
To rapidly sink an enemy ship you should maintain non-stop firing to keep the
enemy crew from repairing any damage you may have caused. But in any case,
observe one rule if you want to hit the enemy during your attacks - try to
avoid being spotted.

To locate a submarine, use the sonar. It is easiest to hit it with a torpedo
when it surfaces to renew its oxygen levels.

CONTROL GUIDE
At all times:   joystick in port #1 or Cursor keys and Space.
                Left/right for steering.
                Up/Down for speed.
                Fire (space) to fire weapons.

F1              Command Post

F2              Binoculars

F3 or C         Cannons
                Keys 1, 2 and 3 (main keyboard) to change the turret.
                Numeric pad 4 and 6 to train the turrets.
                Numeric pad 2 and 8 to elevate/depress the cannons.
                Space bar or joystick Fire to fire cannons.

F4 or T         Torpedo tubes (port side)
                2 (main keyboard) for starboard side
                Numeric pad 4 and 6 to train the tubes.

F5 or D         Damage and ammunition/fuel indicators
                (lit bright red means that station is damaged)

F6              Map
                Z or F7 to zoom in the map.
                Cursor keys or joystick to move the map.
                Space bar in zoom mode centres the map on your ship.
                Esc to exit the map display.

F8              Accelerated time
                Only available in map mode and when more than 1 mile from the
                coast and any other ships.

F10 or P        Pause

R               Selects Radar

S               Selects Sonar

ENEMY SHIPPING CHARACTERISTICS.

  TYPE             DESCRIPTION                    SPECIFICATIONS
  Tanker           Looks like a tanker            Max speed     :N/A
                   Long flat forward decks.       Cruise speed  :18 Knots
                                                  Armament      :N/A

  Freighter        Very similar to Tanker but     Max speed     :N/A
                   Bridge is set nearer to        Cruise speed  :18 Knots
                   the mid-ships then flat deck   Armament      :N/A
  Cruiser          Has 2 funnels and 4 gun        Max speed     :N/A
                   turrets.                       Cruise speed  :32 Knots
                                                  Armament      :8 cannons of
                                                                 200mm each.
                                                  Protection    :armoured deck
                                                                 & hull,resis-
                                                                 tant to shell
                                                                 impact.

  German Torpedo   Single funnel,has guns set to  Max speed     :38 Knots
  Boat             rear of vessel.                Cruise speed  :28 Knots
                                                  Armament      :4 cannons 150
                                                                 mm each, & 80
                                                                 torp. tubes
                                                                 on deck.
  British
  Destroyer        Single funnel, set mid-ships   Max speed     :34 Knots

                   3 gun turrets, 2 to front and  Cruise speed  :27 Knots
                   1 to the rear of vessel.       Armament      :6 Cannons of
                                                                 120mm each.

  Italian
  Destroyer        single funnel, with bridge in  Max speed     :35 Knots
                   front, 3 gun turrets, 2 to     Cruise speed  :28 Knots
                   rear, 1 to front.              Armament      :6 cannons
                                                                 120mm each.

   German
   Destroyer       Twin funnels set midships,     Max speed     :35 Knots
                   2 gun turrets both on the      Cruise speed  :28 Knots
                   rear of ship, bridge at front. Armament      :6 cannons of
                                                                 150mm each.

   Submarine       Well look for a conning        Max speed(subm) :8  Knots
                   tower in the water that just   Max speed(surf) :17 Knots
                   could be it.                   Armament        :4 Torpedos.

THE MISSIONS

MEDITERRANEAN MISSIONS
1: Training mission. This mission is an easy introduction into the battle.
   At 6:30 am, you leave the base of LA VALETTE on Malta (E3). Your mission
   is to destroy a freighter cruising off LINOSA ISLAND (D3). You must then
   return to your base before 8:00 am.

2: You sail from the base of LA VALETTE on Malta (E3). Your mission is to
   intercept and destroy a convoy of enemy ships spotted at 9:15 am by the
   R.A.F. to the south of PANTELLERIA ISLANDS (C3) on its way to the enemy
   base of TRIPOLI. This convoy consists of of 2 freighters and 1 tanker. It
   has an approximate speed of 10 Knots. Once your mission is over, you must
   return to your base.

3: You sail from the base of LA VALETTE on Malta. Your mission is to sink an
   Italian cruiser already heavily damaged by the R.A.F., off SYRACUSE (F3).
   The last report from the Admiralty states that the vessel was at cruising
   speed on its way to the italian base of TARANTO. You must intercept it
   before enemy destroyers arrive to escort it.

4: You are cruising off TUNIS. A reconnaissance aircraft reports 2 Italian
   cruisers spotted close by PANTELLERIA ISLAND (C3). Alerted to the threat,
   the cruisers are now sailing in the direction of CAP BON to escape the
   R.A.F. Your mission is to launch a surprise attack upon them and then to
   immediately head for MALTA.

5: You sail from the base of LA VALETTE in MALTA (E3). Your mission is to
   protect a supply convoy coming from GIBRALTAR and now cruising off TUNIS
   (B3). You must rendezvous with it and destroy any enemy ships heading in
   its direction. Watch out, the R.A.F. have spotted an enemy destroyer in
   the sector (C3).

DELTA MISSION
   A surveillance mission. You sail from your base, fully laden with fuel
   and munitions. You must patrol in the area demarcated by the map. You
   may stop in Allied ports to repair and resupply. The Admiralty counts on
   you to inflict heavy losses on the enemy, but make sure that you have
   identified your target before firing.

ENGLISH CHANNEL MISSIONS
1: You are patrolling south of DOVER. Your mission is to identify 2 vessels
   which our coastal Radar stations have spotted to the North of DUNKIRK (G2).
   Then head back to your base in the THAMES estuary. Be careful, they are
   probably enemy vessels, in which case, your mission is to sink them.

2: MONDAY, MAY 27th 1940: You sail from your base in the THAMES estuary. Your
   mission is to protect the evacuation of the Allied forces gathered in
   DUNKIRK (G2). You must protect the transport ships sailing between DUNKIRK
   and the THAMES from the attacks of German destroyers. As soon as you are
   short of fuel or munitions you must dock at DUNKIRK.

3: You are cruising off PORTSMOUTH (E3) Your mission is to attack an enemy
   convoy of freighters and tankers which the R.A.F. has spotted close by
   CHERBOURG (D4) sailing EAST. You must inflict heavy losses on the enemy
   before heading back to PORTSMOUTH.

4: You sail from the base of PORTSMOUTH (E3). An enemy submarine has been
   seen off CHERBOURG (D4). Your mission is to find it with the sonar and to
   shadow it until it surfaces, and then you're to sink it.

5: JUNE 4th, 1940. DUNKIRK (G2) is surrounded by the enemy. Fortunately the
   evacuation of allied troops is almost complete. Your mission is to protect
   the last two ships transporting Allied troops about to leave DUNKIRK.

DELTA MISSION:
   A surveillance mission. You sail from your base, fully laden with fuel
   and munitions. You must patrol in the area demarcated by the map. You
   may stop in Allied ports to repair and resupply. The Admiralty counts on
   you to inflict heavy losses on the enemy, but make sure that you have
   identified your target before firing.

NORTH SEA MISSIONS
1: You are cruising west of STAVANGER (E4); the radio informs you that a light
   enemy cruiser damaged by our artillery has taken refuge in the fjords close
   to SAUDA (E3) to repair. You must spot it and, if possible, attack. Be
   careful, enemy destroyers are probably coming in as reinforcements.

2: You are sailing off NORWAY. You must patrol along the shores, up to BERGEN
   (D1) to spot and destroy enemy ships which are hiding in the FJORDS zone
   (E2).

3: You sail from EGERSUND (E5) in NORWAY. You are the only allied ship in the
   sector with an offensive capability. Your mission is to run the blockade
   set up by the German destroyers at the fjords' exit. You must sink every
   enemy ship, to allow our supply convoy to sail in safety. If you are badly
   damaged, you can head to EGERSUND to be repaired.

4: The enemy is in possession of heavy water, used in the construction of
   atomic bombs. A freighter transporting the containers and 5 warships
   escorting it  have been spotted south of BERGEN (D1). Your mission is to
   attack the convoy and to sink the freighter, at all costs.

5: The Luftwaffe have badly damaged your ship. You took refuge in the FJORDS
   (E2) to repair. The radio informs you that enemy ships are heading for you
   at full speed. You have no alternative, you must confront them and then
   sail back to the base at BERGEN (D1).

DELTA MISSION:
   A surveillance mission. You sail from your base, fully laden with fuel
   and munitions. You must patrol in the area demarcated by the map. You
   may stop in Allied ports to repair and resupply. The Admiralty counts on
   you to inflict heavy losses on the enemy, but make sure that you have
   identified your target before firing.

SOME ADVICE FROM ADMIRAL WALKIRIE

SAILING WITHIN SIGHT OF LAND:
Reduce your speed to half and carefully watch your depth gauge. In these
areas of the map, the bottom depth varies a lot and you might run aground.
Reducing speed when sailing into port:

To promptly reduce speed you must reverse the engines. Go from 1/2 or full
forward speed to FLANK in reverse speed, then when the ship speed is at it's
lowest go to the stop position.

FLANK SPEED:
This is attained with full engine power. You can stay at flank speed for only
a few minutes. When the engine room crew detect the engines overheating,
power is reduced to FULL position. For security reasons, it is better to use
the FLANK position during an emergency withdrawal.

RUDDER DAMAGE:
If your rudder is damaged, reduce speed to minimum, to allow the crew to
repair it.

SUDDEN CHANGE OF COURSE:
Reduce your speed (1/2 position) and change your course. Any type of
manouevering is more easily carried out at low speed.

ATTACK FROM ENEMY AIRCRAFT:
When you are sent on a mission close to an enemy base, the Axis forces may
launch STUKAS to sink you. These divebombers are extremely accurate, and
very dangerous to Allied forces without air cover. Cannons are the only
weapons you have to defend yourself with.

End.
