




                             LITTLE COMPUTER PEOPLE

     Typed in by DOC'S "R" US BBS. Edited by Parasite.


              We're happy to welcome you to the Activision Little Computer
          Research Group.
              As you may have read,we suspected for quite some time that there
          was something living inside most computers. But we didn't know
          who,what or how many there were. After years of research,hard work
          and creative speculation,we invented what finally became the turning
          point in this arduous investigation:The "House-On-A-Disk."
              When our little computer person so tentatively entered his new
          "home",it was an experience beyond explanation. You'll soon see what
          we mean. From that moment on,we have been collecting volumes of
          information on the Little Computer People:what their personal habits
          are,what they like,what they don't like. We now believe that every
          single computer has its own LCP. And that every LCP is unique in
          appearance and personality.That is why we have opened this project up
          to all interested computer owners.
              We also have strong evidence indication that there are actually
          several LCP in every computer. But it seems that only one will reside
          in any given home. So,if you find you enjoy caring for and observing
          your first LCP,you may want to sign up to study others your computer
          may hold.
              The preceding guide is a compilation of what's currently known
          about providing for the LCP.Use this guide as an outline.But,remember,
          please experiment on your own.
              There are many questions that are unanswered. And only through
          the support and cooperation of people like yourself will we ever be
          able to fully understand our newfound friends.
                                                       Sincerely,
                          David Crane and Sam Nelson for the A.L.C.P.R.G.

          MAKING CONTACT
          --------------
              Every time you log onto the disk,you will begin a new research
          session with your Little Computer Person (LCP).
              In your first session,you will be required to enter your name(as
          well as date and time)for your research files. In all subsequent
          sessions, you will only be asked the date and time.
              After you LOAD"*",8,1- your LCP Research Project notebook will
          appear on the screen.
          ENTERING YOUR NAME: You will be asked to log your name into the
          project files. (To later change the name,see "Changing Researcher's
          Name"). Press <RETURN>. Below your name is the "session number" which
          will increase by 1 each time you logon to a new session.
          ENTERING THE DATE: format to follow is: MM/DD/YY. eg: 10/28/85. Press
          <RETURN>.
          ENTERING TIME: HH/MM;AM or PM. eg: 12:00 AM Press <RETURN> and wait.

          MOVING IN
          ---------
              If this is your first research session,your house will be empty
          when it appears on the screen. Based on our findings to date,most LCP
          are quite shy and will not readily rush into a new situation. In
          fact,it may take several minutes before they actually muster the
          courage to step inside the new home you're providing for them.








             On the other hand,LCP's have also been found to be quite loyal.
          Once they have moved in,you can expect them to be in their new home
          on subsequent sessions. In fact,we've never seen one move out yet.
             NOTE: Although only one LCP will occupy any given "House-On-A-Disk"
          we do know that most computers have more than one LCP living inside
          of them. In order to contact another LCP in your computer,you will
          need another "House-On-A-Disk."
              When an LCP enters a house for the first time,we've found that he
          will usually inspect the new home for anywhere from 5 to 10 minutes.
          Then he usually leaves to retrieve his belongings. Yours will
          probably return shortly with his suitcase. Most LCP's also bring
          their dog. If yours doesn't, contact us.
              NOTE: Keyboard is non-functional during the move-in sequence.

          CARE AND FEEDING OF YOUR LCP OR HOW TO MAKE SURE THE PERSON INSIDE YOUR
          COMPUTER IS HEALTHY,HAPPY AND TOTALLY AT HOME.
          ----------------------------------------------
              Although LCP's are basically quite independent,once they move
          into their new home they are,in a sense,living in your world. So they
          will need help in certain areas.
              To insure that your LCP is healthy,see that he always has food
          and water. (The dog also needs food.) Both hunger and dehydration can
          make LCP's sick. They generally turn green and lie in bed when they
          are sick.
             Also,because they tend to be quite active,they should not be
          allowed to sleep too much. They would much rather have your
          attention.

          CARING FOR PHYSICAL NEEDS:
          -------------------------
          [CTRL] F - Food is delivered to his front door.
          [CTRL] W - Fills the water tank. Each time you press W,approximately
                     one glass of water is added to the tank.
          [CTRL] A - Rings the alarm clock.
          [CTRL] D - Leaves dog food at the front door. LCP will do the rest.

          CARING FOR EMOTIONAL NEEDS:
          --------------------------
          Addressing the physical needs of your LCP is relatively easy. To know
          if he needs food or water,you simply look to see if his supply is
          running low.
          Addressing emotional needs,however,takes much more sensitivity and
          careful study. First of all,you must be aware of his different moods.
          So far,we have discovered four distinct moods in the LCP:
          - A smiling face indicates that he is happy. He's probably getting
          plenty of attention.
          - A neutral face means he is content. He's fine but he could be
          better. Try a MOOD BOOSTER.
          - A sad face means he's unhappy and needs MOOD BOOSTING immediately!
          - A sad and green face means that he is sick. This happens when he
          has gone without food or water for quite a long time.

          MOOD BOOSTERS
          -------------
              There are several ways to elevate the mood of your LCP. Studies
          indicate that some ways are more effective than others. And new
          techniques are constantly being reviewed and discovered. Please
          record your discoveries.








          [CTRL] C - A phone call.
                     Many LCP's enjoy recieving phone calls-unless they are
                     constantly interrupted to the point of irritation. We have
                     not yet deciphered their spoken language,nor discovered
                     with whom they chat.
          [CTRL] P - Physical contact (or "petting")
                     We haven't found one who doesn't repond instantly to this.
          [CTRL] R - Leaves a record for his stereo at the front door.
          [CTRL] B - Leaves a book at the front door.
          NOTE: Records and books elevate your LCP's spirits only for mild
          cases of the blues.
          PLAYING GAMES - This is one of their favorite pastimes,so naturally
                          it makes them feel great.

          RECREATION AND RELAXATION
          -------------------------
              Most LCP's are very good at entertaining themselves. They're good
          pianists and can play compositions from Bach to Boogie-Woogie. They
          also like their record collections. In fact,albums make great gifts.
              We've noticed that some LCP's exercise frequently. Many seem to
          enjoy playing with their computers or sitting down in easy chairs
          with the newspaper we've provided them. You may even be albe to talk
          them into building a fire in the fireplace.

          KEYBOARD COMMUNICATION
          ----------------------
              We recently found that we can communicate quite extensively with
          LCP's by typing sentences using the computer keyboard. These
          sentences can be in the form of questions,suggestions or requests. We
          use them to evoke a wide range of responses and reactions from LCPs.
          You can do the same.
              Though we are just beginning to scratch the surface,here are a cou
          of requests we have tried:
          -Please type a letter to me.
          -Please build a fire.
              LCPs are especially responsive to good manners. So remember to
          incorporate words like "please" and "thank you" into your requests.

          CHANGING RESEARCHER'S NAME
          --------------------------
              To change the name of the researcher,type "logon please" and
          press <RETURN>. Select the program called "NAME CHANGER" by pressing
          "1" on the keyboard. Then follow the instructions at the top of the
          screen.

          PLAYING GAMES
          -------------
              As far as we know,almost all LCPs like to play games. Each LCP
          has his own individual favorites,so we've listed a few of the games
          we've noticed occurring most frequently,along with simple instructions
           for playing them.
              An LCP will usually allow you to make the game selection. He will
          knock on the glass of your TV or moniter to get your attention and
          ask you to select a game from the list at the top of the screen. Type
          in the number you want to play.

          1.CARD WAR
          You know the old card game "WAR". Each player has 26 cards to start.








          Each lays out one card, the higher card winning and joining the
          winner's stack of cards. If the two cards match, it's "WAR" and you
          each lay out 4 cards,winner takes all.
          Just press f1 to show the card and f7 to quit.

          2.ANAGRAMS
          The LCP will insist on thinking of a word for you to unscramble. If
          you type in the wrong guess,he will let you know. You can be wrong 8
          or 9 times before he tells you his word.
          For a hint, press f3. An LCP will not give two hints in a row. You
          must guess at least once between hints.
          press f1 to quit. We have never had an LCP quit playing on his own.

          3.5-CARD DRAW POKER
          Standard rules apply. As usual,your LCP will insist on being the
          dealer. You just have to go along with it.
          You both start out with 200 chips,as displayed on the top left of the
          screen. Your number of chips is below his. Bets and raises are
          limited to 20 chips each.
          press f1 to ante up one chip and begin the game.
          The LCP will deal each of you 5 cards (yours are face up) and ask if
          you feel lucky (he is really asking if you want to bet any chips).

          BET (f1)      - BETS one chip each time you press f1
          ENTER (f3)    - ENTERS your bet.
          PASS/CLR (f5) - Lets you PASS when you feel you have a weak hand and
                          do not want to bet. Or CLEARS your bet if you decide
                          to bet a different amount.
          After you make a bet or pass,the LCP will either match or pass.
          When the LCP asks if you want cards,press any combination of numbers
          from 1 to 5 on the keyboard to discard the cards you don't want.
          Press the number again to make your original card reapper. You can
          discard all five of your cards if you like.
          Once you've discarded the cards you don't want,press f1 to DRAW
          replacement cards.
          If you want to keep all 5 of your original cards,press f3 to STAY.
          You will not be dealt any replacement cards.
          Your LCP then tells you on the screen how many cards he discards and
          then deals himself replacement cards.
          You now have the option to make another bet. (See BET,ENTER,PASS/CLR)
          At this point, your LCP may raise his bet and give you two choices:

          SEE* (f1)  - Lets you match his bet.
          FOLD (f3)  - Lets you abandon the hand,losing whatever you've bet.

          * if you opt to SEE,you'll be given three more choices:

          RAISE (f1) - Lets you RAISE the bet even higher.
          ENTER (f3) - ENTERS your raise.
          CALL (f5)  - Stops the betting for that hand and lays the cards on
          the table.
          After each hand,you have the option to QUIT (f7)

          OBSERVATIONS
          ------------
             Use this section to record your observations. You will quickly
          start to notice distinct character traits in your particular LCP. A
          detailed record of these traits is very important to the research








          project as a whole.
             Please keep in mind that your discoveries and insights,like
          everyone else's,are critical to an accurate analysis of this
          important investigation.

          MOVING IN              DATE           TIME

          Unusual Activities:

          APPEARANCE
                    Hair                        Clothing

          Name of Little Computer Person
          Appetite
          Sleeping Habits
          Overall Health
          Predominant Moods
          Housekeeping Hints
          Hygiene
          Moods
          Musical Ability
          Game Playing Aptitude
          Letter Writing Ability
          Forms of Relaxation

              Remember to sign your Deed of Ownership. Then mail it along with
          any data,statistics,unusual findings,photographs,recordings,video
          tapes and other research material to:
          The Activision Little Computer People Research Group
          Box 7287
          Mountain View, CA 94039
              Your contribution to this monumental study of new human life
          forms is most highly appreciated. Thank you one again for your
          interest and time.
                       The A.L.C.P.R.G.
