                        LEGEND OF FAERGHAIL

Typed in by OCTAGON.  Edited by PARASITE.


I.  Background story.                             1

II. Basic concept.                                4
             What is a role-playing-game?         4
             Character attributes.                4
             Character races.                     6
             Trades.                              8
             Abilities.                          10
             Different languages.                11
             Alignment.                          13

III.The world of Faerghail.                      13
             The town.                           13
             Wilderness and Dungeons.            14
IV. Confrontation.                               16
             How does one behave?                16
             Combat.                             17
             Quick combat.                       18
             After combat.                       19
V.  Magic.                                       20
             An overview.                        20
             How to use it.                      20
             Magic spells.                       20

VI. Loading and starting.                        34

VII.Gameplay.                                    34
             Screen.                             34
             CHARACTER display.                  35

VIII.Operating instructions.                     38
             Keyboard.                           38
             Saving and loading an old game.     38
             Additional, user-aid programs.      38
             Making a back-up.                   38
             The different versions.             38

IX. Help.                                        39
             A quick start.                      39


I. BACKGROUND STORY.
"Bad days nowadays I say, me' trusty friends.," -You here the deep timbre of
an old Dwarf warrior from the other side of the tavern:  "yer can't put a foot
outside these 'ol town walls withart bein' attacked by one o' those
spiky-eared mobs, I say..." The Dwarf had hit the nail on the head - the main
point of conversation amoung the peoples of Thyn was the war between the local
Elves and the men of Thyn county:  "I just don't know what's got into thart
lot - just murdering our people without no reason..  But anyways, Oi've always
said, - yo' just can't trust a pack o' them Elves." "Calm down Gruelfin, old
friend", - a deep, calming voice is heard from the other side of the inn.  -
Gruelfin chimes back:  "Well, bugger me, just ask our Chelsea squadron for
'elp, and we'll do 'em in!  Bommin' our chip shops eh?  Wot?  Aah yes, we will
do..  Oh, o.k..  We're sorry about that folks, it's the Elves this time..
Sorry everyone.." The deep voice again, sonewhat amused:  "Its clear that
everone here likes to hear an old Dwarf groaning away about the wrongdoings o'
'them' Elves, but it's not that long ago the name of Baya Liron,- at night,
which you then proceeded to feed to the flames of your camp-fire...  However,
that's an old story, and hasn't got much to do with the evil sityation
nowadays." The slim figure of a man walks out of the shadows and towards your
table.

"May I introduce myself?  My name is Sarian, my profession is trailhunting,
archery and now and again I'm an informant."
 An impish light glitters in his eyes and he grins..  A voice from a
neighouring table says:  "Tell us a tale, strange wander!" "I might well do,
for a few silver coins," says Sarian, and deftly catches the coins thrown in
his direction.  " Ladies and Gentlemen.  Hemm.." - he coughs and waits until
all have ordered drinks..  " Well now, I'll tell you a tale about some of the
strangest creatures that men have ever seen..." The following hours were
filled with tales of forest Trolls, who lived on human flesh, and of Giants -
big and strong enough to throw boulders at each other...  "But these were by
far not the most dangerous of creatures sighted...  One day I saw a creature,
quite like a Orc but as strong as a bear and as dangerous as a rattlesnake.  I
was able to creep round it and came upon a cave, where I heard a few of them
talking.  A strange tongue it was I tell you, the only word I could understand
was 'Mogol', I imagine it was thedescriptive word for themselves.  I heard
this word again, much later on, around a camp-fire.  Here was talk about
creatures that live deep under the earth, and the description fitted that of
the 'Moguls' that I had seen.  They were said to be the ancestors of Orcs and
lesser demons.  However, the truth about this theory I don't know." You cringe
at the thought of meeting one of these creatures.  "But belive me, this was
not the greatest fright I have had on my travels - creatures exist that can,
by some kind of magic rob their victims with one strike and then eat them
alive." "You're laying it on a bit thick, you imp!" - A huge Bararian stands
up and comes over.  "My name is Berek Orcripper, the bane of all Orcs and
their ancestors.  I tell you, I met an Orc-ish race in the Lands of the Black
Ice, by the name of Arag Dai, perhaps not as strong as your 'Moguls' but
craftier and more evil.  And that's nothing compared to the Skryt-Dragons, one
of which I was only able to conquer throgh its own death.  These are able,
with their barn-door mouths,to swallow up hourse and rider in wink of an eye."
The following tales become more and more unbelievable, but no-one seems to
want to stop his oratory.  Probably on account of him being at least 7
foot-six and 255 pounds, but nevertheless, an acceptable tale-teller.  Time
goes on, and one after another the guests go home to there beds.  The
Barbarian and the Dwarf also say goodnight and go their different ways.  At
about midnight you are left nearly alone in the main room of the inn, with the
innkeeper, and the 'archer' Sarian.  "Tell me, my young friend, it doesn't
look as if you're very happy with your lot, at home and on the field." Sarian
had hit the main point of your thoughts.  "As you probably know, the war
against the Elves needs all of our warriors, - and they're not many as Thryn
has not seen blood for ages.  It looks bad for us, we're losing men, and the
enemy just seems to be increasing.  If we don't receive help from outside, and
quickly.." The innkeeper warns:  "It's closing time folks, I'm risking a fine
by letting you sit here." Sarian pulls something out from under the table, a
small bag comes to light, the shape of which revels it to be a filled purse.
"This should at lease be enough for the fine, noble publican - close the door
and shutters please." The innkeeper does as asked.  "Now to come back to our
conversation." says Sarian.  "I've heard that our Majesty is looking for a few
brave young men for a mission.  A mission to the neighbouring county of
Cyldane in order to call for suppoting troops.  Are you interested?  -There
are probably great riches to be earned, and at the least you'll be able to
forget your farming life...  The thought of a great reward...  "But how can I,
alone.." You start up at the thought of this nearly impossible mission, but
Sarian calms you:  "You obviously will not be able to manage it on your own,
but for a number of gold coins you'll probably find a few true companions
who'll want to help you carry the tresures to be found on this adventure."
Gold coins?..  He's talking about a number of gold pieces?  - A farmer would
have to (with a good harvest) work for several months to earn even one!  And
he's talking about gold pices as a farmer would boast about copper coins!
"Would you please tell me where I can dig up these 'gold pices' in order to
enroll the 'true companions' ?" "That is your Count's problem, and not yours.
Is it his rulership that is to be defended, or is it yours?" And agin,there is
a glint in his eyes.  "Go at dawn to the palace gates, mention my name to the
palace guards and tell them your story.  You will then receive an audience.
But until then, think about the mission very carefully, for the Count dislikes
men of wavering purpose and those who would turn down his offers..." After a
few hours of discussion, the innkeeper lets you both outside, and Sarian says
goodbye with the words:  "Keep your chin up, young friend, I think you'll find
the right companions for this challenge..  Goodbye, and take care!" Sarian
disappears in the shadows of the nearby houses.  The very next morning you
decide to go the palace for an audience with the Count:  - to offer him your
services..  Not just, not only the thought of gold in plenty and honour on the
battlefield, - but also the idea of returning to Thyn as a hero would be a
nice 'topping off' to your future career.  Away from the field and harvest..

The Count:  "I have been informed that you are intersted ina mission, and that
you wish to place yourself in my service?  Without regard to the dangers to
your person on this mission?" Without waiting for an answer the Count
continues:  :Very well, young man, here are my orders" Journy to the County of
Cyldane, and ask of the Count Hagror for supporting troops.  The Count will
understand the imminent danger of my downfall, for we were always peaceful
neighbours, but should Thyn fall..  Also, you and your companions - I hope you
do not want to journey alone, should try to find out the reason for thestrange
behaviour of the normally peaceful Elves and wipe out this cause of there
aggression.  My blacksmith will help yourself and your friends with the
desired equiment, and I ask you, when downtown, to look out for a few good men
or women who could be useful on this mission, and then to start as soon as
possible, for I cannot hold out against this ovewhelming power for much
longer." You find yourself quickly escorted to the palace gates, and once
outside, you realise that not one word has been spoken of a 'great reward' or
of 'great riches' to be earned!  "Well, perhaps I'll find a few people to come
along on the way, just out of pure interest..." You think to yourself, and
make your way to the next inn..  The adventure can begin!

II.  BASIC CONCEPT.
What is a role-playing-game ?  There are two kinds of role-playing-games:  One
is the computer role-playing-game:  The computer role-playing gamer leads a
group of through a fictitious world, whereby the most adverse adventures and
puzzles are to be solved.  The computer registers all moves, simulates all
confrontations and occurences and controls all non-player-characters -
(NPC's).  The second kind is the 'real' role-playing-game:  Here, a group of
gamers meet, and each player 'plays' a character.  A gamesmaster 'directs',
(tries to direct) the game, (in computer-role-playing games, the computer
simulates the gamesmaster's functions) - controls all NPC's, and all random
occurences (with the use of dice), steers the group into situations of which
the gamers often have no influence (and are now and again not allowed to
have), and guides the destinies of the player-characters.  The gamer tries to
'play' his character (created using dice, and with differing traits) as
realistically as possible within the fantasy, or science fiction world of the
gamesmaster.The aim of role-playing is to create a social game, and an
atmosphere in which the individual is asked to solve a problem, and is pressed
to find new solutions within a completely different world, depicting a
different character and race, and its train of thought.  Within a group,
responsibility for one another, group ideas, and collective decision is called
for, (especially in 'real' r le-playing).

CHARACTER ATTRIBUTES.
A character is the 'gaming figure' of a player, built up of a conglomeration
of different data and the five main character attributes:

STRENGTH.  This value describes the physical power of a character.  The
greater the strength of a character, the greater the wounds he or she can
distribute to an opponent.  A character of great strength may carry very much
more than a weaker character.  This value is the main attribute of all violent
confrontations, i.e.  - Warriors, Barbarians, Paladins,etc.  More often than
not, male characters are stronger than female characters.

INTELLIGENCE.  This attribute is directly comparable to our I.Q.  tests.  It
describes the individual ability to learn, and combine events.  This ability
is the main attribute of Magicians and their 'lower classes', i.e.  - the
power over magic, be it white or black, and its usage.  This talent also
measures the ability of a character to learn a foreign language.

WISDOM.
This value includes the will-power, memory, understanding, and artfulness of a
character.  It is the main attribute of Clerics, Druids and their powerful
'lower' classes, i.e.  - Rangers, etc.  This talent enables the 'lower class
magician' to perform magic by use of memory / wisdom:  a Cleric may perform
magic without the use of a spellbook and well learned phrases - as a 'normal'
magician would not...  Female characters have, more often than not - a
somewhat higher Wisdom bonus.

DEXTERITY.
This value mirrors the reflexes, motorics - (eye-hand), swiftness, limb
coordination of a character, and its overall bodily adeptness in all different
kinds of situations.  Dexterity has a direct influence on how quickly a
character is prepared for a surprise attack, traps, etc.  I.e - armour class,
and influences the reaction of a character within unpredicted events.  This is
the main attribute of Monks and Thieves, because of the high dexterity needed
to disable traps, or to enlighten others of a heavy purse, etc.

CONSTITUTION.
This value describes the bodily health, stamina, and the resistance to
illness, poison, etc.  of a character.  It also includes information about the
build of a character.  The greater the value of constitution, the higher the
number of hit-points of a character.  Male characters often have greater
strength than female characters, however, their constitution value is often a
little lower than that of females.

Most attribute values are dynamic;i.e - no character can train to improve his
born intelligence, but frequent training will help a warrior to gain higher
strength and / or dexterity.  Similarly, the following attributes describe not
the born attributes, but those describing a character's fighting experience,
magical experience, momentary health, protection, etc.

HIT POINTS.
The number of hit points is a value that describes the general state of health
of a character.  This value does not include illness or invalidity, but
describes organic damage - injuries, and exhaustion.  Each character has a
maximum of hit points.  Maximum hit points = maximum health.  A character with
less than maximum health may suffer in different circumstances.  In combat,
for an example, an injured character is not able to attack as efficiently as a
healthy character, long marches may become very strenuous when injured; this
may also deplete the company's morale.  An unhealthy character is not as
resistant to sickness and poisoning as a healthy one.  A character should
therefore aim to keep or regain the highest number of hit points as possible.
All wounds should be healed as quickly as possible.  This may be done in a
temple, or by using magical healing potions or by magic.  Should nonetheless,
the number of hit points deplete to none - the character will die.

MAGIC POINTS.
The number of magic points limit the number of spells that a magic user may
cast in any one day.  This value may looked upon as being the concentrating
ability of a character that declines with each spell cast.  Has this value
reached zero, a rest must be taken in order to regain magic points.  Rest is
the only way to regenerate these points,although there is some tell of wise
priests from the East, who can regain their concentrating points by the use of
magic.

EXPERIENCE POINTS.
Experience points are gained each time an opponent is defeated or a spell well
cast.  The number of experience points, mirror the combat and life experience
of a character.  Every character begins with absolutely no experience points,
each point has to be well earned.  The higher the number of experience, the
higher a character can climb in his or her profession which means more hit
points.  The character must speak before the Board of free trades, and will
then receive the training suited to his / her experience level.

ARMOUR CLASS.
The armour class of a character is defined by different attributes and the
type of armour used.  It describes the protection of a character against
physical and magical attacks.  The higher the armour class, the higher the
protection.  The armour class is defined by the dexterity, constitution of,
and armour and weapons used by a character.

CHARACTER RACES.
A character may be one of the following races.

HUMAN.
The differing Human racial types that exist in this world are all included in
the Human race, i.e there are several Human races but to describe them all
here would be too tiresome.  Important is that with Humans no professional
limits are given and that all attributes are normal (in other words, Dwarves
are strong, Elves intelligent, and Humans are nothing special!).

DWARF.
Dwarves live in caves and mines and earn their living mainly by mining metal
ores.  To strangers they appear shy and tentative, but to friends and
companions they are true and reliable.  They have a great affection towards
jewels of all kinds and will even start a fight over them.  They have a
natural dislike towards magic - the reason why a Dwarf would never want to, or
even could become a magician.  Because of their, often abnormally strong
build, they are predestined to become good warriors, but are also as good a
blacksmith as any.  They have great distrust towards Eleves because of a
tribal dispute ages back.  Outward appearance:  About four foot high,
nonetheless as heavy as a heavily built Human.  All Dwarves are bearded,
(their womenfolk, too), they are dark haired, dark eyed and have a dark teint.

ELF.
Elves are graceful, elegant, intelligent and mischievous.  Their different
tribes live in forest towns invisible to the unpracticed eye.  They love
nature, arts, games, and the 'nice life'.  Naturally shy, they are however
great companions and are extremely good archers.  Their only real flaw is that
they are often arrogant and over estimate their own capabilities, whilst under
estimating those of others.  They are nearly immune towards paralysing but are
not as useful in man to man combat as for example Dwarves.  Their high
intelligence often proves them to be good magicians or illusionists.  Outward
appearance:  Normally six feet high, slight of build and quick of limb.
Mostly blonde, light skinned, and either blue or golden eyed.  Their greatest
visible distinction is their pointed ears and large oval eyes.

HALFLING.
Halflings live, quite like Dwarves under the earth but in 'Halfling built'
living caves.  Liking comfort, they love their homes and the company of great
story tellers.  Most are gardeners or tradesmen, now and again a goldsmith or
jeweler is to be found amongst them.  It is seldom that a Halfling will trade
his comfortable life for that of an adventurer but when, they often make great
thieves or scouts.  They are also said to be experienced archers and handy
with a sling.  They are not the born hero kind of type, but will do anything
to help a friend or companion in danger.  They will also trick a 'bad sort'
even in the knowledge of danger to themselves.  Outward appearance:  Halflings
are about three feet high, a little tubby around the waist (they love their
comfort), lightly tanned skin, dark eyes and, like Elves, pointed ears.

MIXED RACE.
There are many children of mixed race, the offspring of mixed marriage between
Humans and Elves, and Orcs.  The so-called Half-Elves often have some of the
advantages of their parents, but not all.  For example, the near immunity to
paralysis or the Elven immortality.  (Elves only die through injury or
poisoning).  Another mixed race is the Half-Orc:  Not quite as ugly as Orcs
but just as sly and nearly as strong.  They are quite good warriors but not
very intelligent, and always looking for a quarrel, that being the reason why
it is mostly a Half-Orc that will be rejected by a group.

TRADES.
In this game there are twelve professions.  The trade of a character is the
training that an adventurer has gained after giving up his normal boring life
as a tradesman, farmer, citizen etc.  The trades are as follows:

WARRIOR.
A warrior is trained to use the most different of weapons, he earns his living
using his strength, his knowledge of weapons and experience in combat.  To
service as a fighter he should be of great strength, and be of a good, healthy
constitution.  Each group of adventurers should have at least one warrior
within it, in order to protect the weaker in combat, and now and again break
down the odd door or two that are in the way.

BARBARIAN.
Barbarians are born, no-one can train to be a barbarian, you either are one,
or not.  Barbarians are a somewhat strange folk:  They detest all kinds of
magic and other 'funny' things, and rely on their enormous strength and
dexterity.  Their attributes are quite like those of warriors, however, they
are a little more hardened by their rough life in the wilderness, and that
much 'tougher' whilst being very skilled in survival in the wild.

THIEF.
Thieves are dexterous and clever:  they will avoid man to man combat because
of their lesser strength, but are extremely adept at finding and deactivating
traps, are well known for their quick fingers, and for opening locked doors
etc.  (without the correct key, - even an Orc could do that!) A high degree of
dexterity is needed for the up and coming thief - surprisingly often its a
thieve's life insurance.  Thieves may not wear heavy armour, at the utmost
leather or Elven chainmail, which does not hinder them when 'at work'.

BLACKSMITH.
There are not many blacksmiths to be found seeking adventure, but now and
again they can be encountered.  They are an excellant 'mobile workshop' the
only encumbrance being the anvil that they carry, (in order to repair the
group's armour and weaponry).  A blacksmith, (like thieves) will only wear (if
at all), leather armour, and such that is not a hindrance when working.  There
is another reason for this, and that is the ancient 'Blacksmith's Code of
Honour' - by which each blacksmith tries to live, even though there is
nowadays no reason to.  A blacksmith may also cast spells..  However, the
number of spells a blacksmith can learn is limited, and only those spells that
would come in use in his trade may be learned.  To cast magic, a blacksmith
needs his hammer and anvil, - the centre of his power and magic.

RANGER.
Rangers are a sub-class of warriors.  This, however does not mean 'lower
class'.  A ranger lacks some of the abilities of a well trained warrior, but
has other advantages, for example:  A ranger can make out an opposing group or
small army over a great distance, and even give an account of it's size and
strength.  At, and above the sixth level, a ranger may cast spells.  This
ability derives from the dual interest of both professions on the protection
of forestlands and nature etc.

CLERIC.
A cleric is a character who's life is filled with the ideal of doing good to
others and reducing evil in the world.  Through his belief and his faith, his
God (there are many faces, but there is only one God), has given him the
ability to use magic.  Whereby the type of magic is usually of a defensive /
protective kind.  The main attribute of clerics is wisdom, as most of their
knowledge is not just that of written down spells etc.

DRUID.
Druids are the 'colleagues' of clerics, but a druid's life work is that of the
protection of forests, woodlands, and all nature within them, and he will
protect them, using all of his powers.  The magic of the druids derives from
this will to protect, - that being elemental magic, the power over the four
elements:  Earth, wind, fire and water.  Druids are welcome in any
companionship, the effect being that nature seldom turns against them.

MAGICIAN.
Magicians are mostly strange, learned, unworldly types, who seldom leave their
pile of books, unless to try out some newly found knowledge or spell.
Magicians, (like illusionists and all sub-classes of magic users) are, because
of the complexity of their spells, especially bound to their personal
spellbook.  A magician wears no amour, all metal on his person would interfere
with his spellcasting.  Magicians are not very agile, mostly because of their
great age (by human standards they are extremely old), and are often too weak
to survive man to man combat.  Magicians normally prefer to fight using their
own special weapons, and far from the front line of danger.  (Well, most of
them)...

ILLUSIONIST.
The illusionist's profession is much like that of a magician, he also cannot
wear any metal armour, nor is he practiced in the art of warfare - sharp
objects, i.e weapons should not be given to him, - he'd probably injure
himself badly, - quite like magician would do.  The main difference between
the two is that a magician creates a reality, and the illusionist creates an
image of reality in the mind of the target person (real for him).  Should the
target person or object belive what is seen, the illusion will become reality,
- with all consequences.  Illusionists should be of high intelligence and
dexterity - not only do illusions need a special kind intelligence but also
special skill.

PALADIN.
Paladins are warriors as one would picture a knight from the Middle Ages:
They fight with, and for honour, seeking fame on the battlefield by taking on
the most dangerous of opponents.  Paladins are ruled by their 'Code of
Honour', and always try to free the world of evil forces.  Paladins have
distinct powers of good that other 'normal' warriors lake:  - Fourth level
paladins and above gain knowledge of clerical magic.  A paladin will never
attack a basically good person or creature.

HEALER.
Healers (all of them are female), are magicians specialized in constructive
magic.  Their spells are all of a healing or a protective nature, and never
the type of spell that would damage or injure others.  Healers, as with
magicians may not wear metal armour, which makes them heavily vulnerable in
combat.  However, healers are of great help to a group, using their protective
magic in, or after a confrontation.  The main attributes of a healer are
wisdom and dexterity, (for instance in dealing with bad injuries).

MONK.
The monks in the world of Faerghail may be compared to the type of world
famous monk, (our world) - brother Tuck, the well loved companion and friend
of Robin Hood.  Perhaps not always as sturdily built as Tuck, but nevertheless
journeying along and always ready to do a good deed or two, they should never
be under estimated.  They pride themselves in not wearing armour or clothing
that would impound their stature, and are experienced fighters in their own
way, preferring blunt weapons such as clubs etc.  The main attributes of monks
are dexterity, wisdom, and constitution, - body and mind being thoroughly
trained during their novice years.  Their training also includes some special
skills,quite like those learned by thieves.

ABILITIES.
Each character has, alongside the main attributes, other aspects which make up
an individual.  These aspects we will call abilities.  These may be general,
or those needed and trained in a particular profession.

NEGOTIATING.
This value gives account of a character's ability to buy cheep and sell for a
good profit.  Also of great use when parleying with opponents, (very
important).

ATTACK.
This value tells us of the chance of striking a heavy blow, badly injuring an
opponent.  The most important talent of a warrior.

DEFENCE.
Means the opposite of attack (above), can also include an excellent defensive
move, a skillful feint, avoiding a spell etc.

CONCENTRATING.
An important talent, especially for magicians and their sub-classes.  A
magician with optimum concentration is able to guarantee a maximum effect of
the spells he has cast.  Is also an important value for those characters
wanting to learn new spells or languages.

PICK-POCKETING.
This talent may be useful in any inn or tavern.  Important when out of money.
One should try not to be caught too often.  -Thieves caught are often
imprisoned indefinitely.  There is even tell of a country that chops off, when
sentenced, the thieving hand...  (ruins an honest career that does).

STALKING.
This is a talent that has got to be learnt.  It may be invaluable to creep by,
and attack the opponent from behind..  Thieves use this talent, and there is a
rumor that monks are taught this to a very high degree..

TRAP DETECTING.
This talent is useful in finding traps instead of walking into them.  This
talent is sought after and trained by monks and thieves as being their kind of
speciality...

TRAP DISARMING.
This talent obviously the ability to dispose/disable traps without damage to
oneself or the group.  Because of the high level of dexterity needed, etc.,
this is mostly the domain of monks and thieves.

OPEN DOORS.
Closed and locked doors always were an object of curiosity for humans, etc.
Every apprentice thief has to open one in order to gain his mastership.
However, not every door is locked in the normal way, and even a most
experienced thief is powerless when confronted with a magically locked door.

DIFFERENT LANGUAGES.

COMMON LANGUAGE.
The common language of Faerghail may be compared to our common language -
"Esperanto".  However, it is widely used, especially as a kind of trading
language, and has gained popularity, not only as a universal understanding,
but as a world language.  It may now be considered to be the universal
language, understood by all.

ANIMAL LANGUAGE.
Not a 'real' language as we would consider on to be, but a conglomeration of
sounds created by animals as a signal to another of the same species, often
conveying vital information about the immediate surroundings.  Druids and
rangers should master this language.

ORC TONGUE.
This somewhat strange language (also called Gritshnak) is a mixture of common
language, dark language and animal sounds, but not very complex and used by
all Orcs and their related species.  This language after the common tongue, as
Orcs are very populous, although generally unwelcome.

LIZARD LANGUAGE.
Lizards are a strange folk, very little is known about them as they avoid all
contact with other beings.  This language is rarely spoken by a member of any
other race.  As a rule because all contact with them usually ends in a bloody
way...

DWARVEN LANGUAGE.
Dwarves speak a language, that is generally difficult for others to learn, it
being a very guttural, dark sounding tongue.  It is also difficult to find a
master of this language who is willing to teach, as Dwarves keep themselves to
themselves and dislike letting 'strangers' take part in their lives.

ELVEN TONGUE.
Eleves have a main language which includes many dialects that are, however,
very similar.  As Eleves are normally very affable, it is quite easy to find a
good teacher.  This language is also widely used, as Eleves often have contact
and socially mix with Humans.

DARK LANGUAGE.
Dark tongue is a dialect of the Dwarven language that has, over many years,
changed drastically, so that it may now be considered as an individual
language.  It is used by all beings (creatures) that live under the earth,
shunning daylight and all contact with those who live on the surface.

MAGIC LANGUAGE.
Last but not least is the language of magic.  Its real name being "Terandir
Ellagrinum Estaffyn" - called "Magic language" by normal folk.  It is the
language of occult and fantasy beings and creatures.  "Terandir Ellagrinum
Estaffyn" means - "The language of the unknown".  A magician should be able to
speak this tongue fluently, as it is very likely that he will come into
contact with one of these creatures, by invoking or by incantation.  Many of
these fantastic beings can only be controlled by a magician able to speak this
language fluently.

ALIGNMENT.
The gaming figure of a player may have one of the very differing principles of
life:  A paladin respects law and order, the right to live of all other
creatures, and will never kill unless absolutely necessary.  A thief, however,
whose aim in life is to ignore the law at all times, can never be lawful good.
This example leads to the fact that there are "lawful good" and non- "lawful
good" characters.  These non- "lawful good" characters may also be divided
into so-called "neutral" characters and "evil" characters.  Neutral characters
characters will always change their principles to suit their own means, whilst
an evil character will even sell his own grandmother and kill for fun.  The
social systems of evil characters are always based on survival of the
strongest and craftiest.  A player should always bear in mind that evil
characters will not parley, and that it is, more often than not, a waste of
time arguing with them.  One should not, however, just try to 'hack and slay'
all those creatures encountered, as now and again, important aid may be gained
from them.  Also, many character classes will not just kill anything that
moves.

III.  THE WORLD OF FAERGHAIL.

THE TOWN
The starting point of this mission is the town of Thyn.  Thyn and Cyldane are
built and organised in much the same way, so that both may be described here.

TRADING POST.
The Steelstone family own and run trading posts in the Counties of Thyn,
Cyldane and throughout the Kingdom for more than a hundred years.  Here, an
adventurer will find all that his heart desires, from the exquisite halberd
made of specially hardened steel, to the famous 'Steelstone Suit of Armour' -
easy to wear, (do not wash or iron).  Steelstone's shops are also famed for
the fair prices paid for second-hand weapons or armour.

WILDERNESS AND DUNGEONS

WHAT IS TO BE FOUND IN THE WILD?
The counties of Thyn and Cyldane are thickly forested.  All kinds of creatures
from buffalo to deer are found in the forests nowadays, waylaying travellers
and traders.  Luckily, taverns are to be found here and there, affording
protection for at least the night.  It is advised to look for a tavern when in
countryside controlled by bandits, and plan the further journey from there.
One should also try to reach a tavern before sundown as town gates and tavern
doors are locked and bared after sundown and are opened again the next
morning.  Should it happen, that late at night you are not let in, the only
thing left is to camp outside.  This is clearly not advisable as one faces
many dangers outside at night.:  These dangers range from an attack by roving
bandits or creatures, to the danger of a werewolf attack at full moon.  The
area of the two counties is not only inhabited by Humans, but Dwarves and
Elves live here too.  There are not only the two towns of Thyn and Cyldane and
the taverns here and there, but also other places worthy of visit.  An hours
walk from Thyn, the Temple of the Dragon's Servants way be found.  A ruined
castle and the Elven Palace is also easily within reach.  To enter Cyldane,
the other half of this country, one has to pass the high mountainrange called
the 'Dragon's tail'.  A direct passage through the range is the way through
the Dwarven mines, the 'Khazad Maran'.  The city of Cyldane itself is
unusually large - nearly twice the size of Thyn.  The county of Cyldane also
contains the Monastery Sagacita - a centre of wisdom, an overgrown inactive
volcano, and the ruins of an ancient oracle.

WHAT IS FOUND IN THE DUNGEONS?
One should always bear in mind that the place in which you are in was built to
deter intruders.  Complicated gangways and labyrinths are the best example.
It is always advisable to sketch a map of your progress, which, at an extreme
- (a hord of Orcs is after your skin), may save your life.  An ancient myth
tells of a magical sphere that, when looked into, shows the way to lost
travellers.  This object was, however, lost in the dark passageways of the
Dwarves mines.  Whoever finds it will never have to fret about being lost
underground.  It is also useful to inspect the surroundings very carefully.
Secret doors and traps may be found that only a thief may deactivate
successfully.  Not all doors are locked, however, but dark secrets are often
waiting to be discovered behind heavily locked doors.  A thief is always
useful in this case, but a strong warrior may also do his part in breaking it
down - but careful - injuries may be sustained.

WHAT CAN I DO IN A DUNGEON?
When not busy in fighting off opponents, there are a number of actions that
may be taken to move the group or incur events.  These are as follows:

USE ITEM (U)
Magic potions, scrolls, magic wands, etc.  are activated by using this option.
Firstly, the character that is to use the object is chosen, and then the
object to be used is chosen.

CAST SPELL (C)
With this option, the magician plays his role.  As above, the magician to
cast, and then the spell to be cast has to be chosen.

FORGE (F)
In case of a blacksmith being with the group, this option allows him to repair
the armor or weapons of another character.  Again, the character, and then his
armour or weapon to be repaired has to chosen.  This option is only active if
a blacksmith is a member of the party, for obvious reasons.

REST (R)
This option is used to highten the morale of a group after long, tiring
marches etc.  Firstly, the duration of rest has to be decided upon, and then a
character has to be chosen to keep watch.  The character on watch will not
recuperate as well as the other members, and therefore regains no magic-points
or hit-points.  One may also decide not to designate a watchman.

DISMISS (D)
In order to make room for a roving adventurer to join the group, it may be
necessary to remove a recruited character from the party.  The expelled
character then makes his way through the wilderness to the next tavern.  In
dungeons, only those characters who have joined the group under way may be
expelled.  These then make their way home and not to the next tavern.

LURE (L)
In order to shake off a group of monsters who are after you in the dungeons,
it may be useful to lay some bait.  Through this, the party may gain enough
time to escape.  The time gained depends upon the intelligence of the monster,
and the type of bait left.  A normal animal would be quite happy with a scrap
or more of food, an intelligent monster might stop for some gold coin or
other.  A few rations or a bag of gold may stop monsters before it comes to a
combat situation, or, at worst, sharpen the monster's hunger for more.
Whichever way, laying bait will gain time for the group to escape.

MAGIC BALL (M)
This option is only active if the mythical sphere has been found.  This makes
it possible to follow the passage the group has made without sketching, the
way is automatically mapped.

PICK LOCK (P)
A thief is needed to open a locked door.  Using his tools, a thief is
generally able to open almost any locked door, however, being a specialist he
gives up easily when confronted by something extremely difficult.  In this
case the only way left is to break the door down.

OPTIONS/ FILES (O)
In this menu, there are functions that change game parameters, save and open
game files.  A formatted disc is needed to save and reload game files.

All of the above functions may also be called up by pressing the right mouse
button, a menu then appears over the text window.

Some functions may only be activated from the keyboard:

PAUSE (P)
This stops gameplay for an unlimited amount of time, the effects of spells and
the condition of characters does not change in that time.

IV.  CONFRONTATION.

HOW DOES ONE BEHAVE?
When, on your long journey through Faerghail with your band of trusty friends,
you come across another group of trustworthy or not so trustworthy beings, it
doesn't mean that you have to instantly pull out the halberd and cry:  I'll
take the five in the middle and you go for the three on the right and the rest
we'll do in later.." or that kind of thing...  More often than not, you'll be
able to bargain with the potential opponent.  Depending on their intelligence,
they will often think about the risk of attacking a potentially powerful
group.  This leaves the advantage to you...  Obviously, to make contact with
them, one of the group has got to be able to speak their language, and have
the needed level of negotiating / parleying ability.  Should contact be made,
the following options are available:

- TRADE WARES:
Traveling traders often journey through the wilderness in the hope of meeting
the odd group or two of adventurers, and then try to sell to them the most
pitifully useless of objects.  Quite the same can be said of other creatures
who, after their plunderings, try to sell of objects that they themselves have
no use of.A general warning may be given to those adventurers thinking of
buying wares from roving salesmen or other individuals, as the quality of the
appraised wares is often low, and the prices higher than that of the same kind
of rubbish that is sold in towns.

-RETREAT:
With this option, the group is given the chance to make it quite clear to a
bored giant (for example), that having your heads dashed in is not that much
fun after all...  The group saves itself the tiring act of combat, gains no
experience points, but the parleying level of a character may grow.

-RECRUIT:
Should one come across a group of friendly Dwarves or crusading knights, this
is the option to persuade them to join your cause for a time.  Normally, one
will join your companionship until expelled at a later date.  If the group has
not had the luck of being able to trade or parley with others, there is
another method, apart from combat or retreat, and that is - greeting.  Many
other groups may be found on a cause or mission,- these groups will also greet
you back.  On the other hand, a group of aggressive, brainless monsters will
attack.  In this case, the 'greeting' function is ignored, and gameplay
resumes as if the 'combat' function was decided upon by your group.

COMBAT.
Your luck has run out on you, the group has tried everything, but negotiating
and parleying ability was not enough, even the hopes of running away - backing
down, retreating, were dashed...  Now, all comes down to the nitty gritty.  -
Combat:  In front of you, a small, massed army of skeleton warriors stands
armed to the teeth, laughing - (if they could - all undead are dumb), and
gloating over their near victory...  It's high time to work out a fighting
strategy for the next round...  Each fighting round presents a combat table
that could look like this:

1) Arnold            Kil         Attacks          1
2) Smitty            Def         Magic            1
3) Casimir           Ret         Magic            2
4) Aleena            Def         Use Object       1
5) Tardil            Att         Attacks          1
6) Tolfin            Def         Stalks          2?

This combat table shows the position of each fighter, and the position he has
taken up within the fighting grid.  An opponent will always take up position
within the three upper fighting levels, whereas a character may take up any
position within the four lower levels.  These four fighting levels are named:
Killing rank, Attacking rank, Defending rank, and Retreating rank.  They
correspond with the above table, and are shortened as:  "Kil", "Att", "Def",
"Ret".  The chances of a character being able to attack well, or injure an
opponent badly, depend upon his position within the fighting ranks.  The
nearer one is to an opponent, the easier it is to injure him, or be injured.
With magical attacks however, the opposite is the rule.  The further away from
the fray a magician is, the better he can concentrate.  A magician with an Orc
on his back is not likely to succeed in concentrating on a spell.  Whereas a
spell cast from a distance loses little of its power.  Depending upon which
profession a character practices, there are several advantages that improve
the options that he/she has in combat.  Here follows a list of actions that
may be taken during combat

-DEFEND:
Characters without the strength or dexterity needed to badly injure an
opponent may try to avoid the worse, and by defending, block all attacks made
on him.  Under normal circumstances, it is better to try for concentrated
self-defence, rather than a wild attack, which is still thought (by some) to
be the best defence.

-ATTACK:
Includes an attack with weapons or, in case of their not being available -
fists.  Only the first line of an opposing group may be attacked, - a warrior
cannot fight over the heads of opponents to get at their second line.

-STALK:
This kind of attack is the reserved privilege of thieves and monks.  The
character disappears for one combat round, reappears behind the opponent's
lines and, unobserved, tries to do as much damage as possible.  The success of
this type of combat depends highly on the level of dexterity and sneaking
talent of a character.  This kind of attack allows any opponent to be
attacked, not just those in the front line.

-USE OBJECT:
This option allows a character to use a magic wand or magic weapon.

-CAST SPELL:
The chosen character uses his magic powers to support the group.  This may
include a healing spell for the group or a magical attack on the opponents.
After positioning your group and designating a plan of action to each
character, combat may begin!  For an informative fighting round one chooses
the "normal combat' function 'quick combat' may be chosen.  At the end of each
combat round, a result will be shown, and in case of a ranger being a member
of the group, a short summary of the opposing group's health will be
presented.

QUICK COMBAT.
A long fight may be tiring, not just for the characters, but also for the
player, too.  In this case (as often, only the result of a fight may be of
interest, and not the performance of each character) the function '(Q)uick
combat' may be chosen, instead of the normal '(A)ttack!.  After a combat
round, a table is shown:

NAME       HP.        W     A    B   ATTACK
Arnold     -3         *     -    -   Failed
Smitty      0         -     -    -   Succeeded
Casimir     0         -     -    *   Succeeded
Aleena    -10         *     -    -   Failed
Tardil      0         -     *    -   Succeeded
Tolfin     -1         -     -    -   Succeeded

Besides the name of each character, a list of important combat information is found, that is not included in the normal character table. This information is:

-Hp.  = Hitpoints:  How many hit points has a character lost in this round?

-W = Weapon damage:  Has a character's weapon been damaged in this round?
When yes, a '*' is displayed, otherwise a '-' is shown.

-A = Armour damage:  Has an enemy missed whilst trying to injure a character
and instead damaged his armour?  Yes = '*' , No = '-'.

-B = Bonus points:  Has a character proved himself worthy in battle of a bonus
for a special talent?  Yes = '*', No = '-'.

-Attack:  Has a character succeeded in attacking and injuring the enemy, or
has he failed?

Other information, on armour quality, health etc., of each character may be
found in the normal character table.

AFTER COMBAT.
Has the group survived the fight or just fled from the fighting, a quick
summary in table form is presented, showing the complete results of a
confrontation, the gains and losses made, health and experience of a group.
The table may look like this:

Name          Gld.        Rt      Exp.      Hp.
Arnold         116         6        67        0
Smitty          80         5        14        0
Casimir         54         5         0        0
Aleena          75         6         0      -12
Tardil         103         5        12       -2
Tolfin          12         5        15       -2

THESE VALUES ARE AS FOLLOWS:
- Gld.  = Gold:  How much gold was plundered during combat?  This value may
not be the actual amount of gold that could have been gained, i.e - does not
depend on how many opponents a character has slain, but is the amount of gold
that a character could carry from the fray.

- Rt = Rations:  Some opponents, like deer or wild bour are, when slain, a
good source of rations.  Orcs however, are not my taste yuk!

- Exp.  = Experience points:  Depending upon how many adversaries a character
has injured, experience points are given for each round won.  Magicians also
receive experience for each well cast spell.

- Hp.  = Hit points:  Normally the same value as shown in the quick combat
table.  Here is the end result of lost hit points after combat.

V.MAGIC.

AN OVER VIEW
Magic is the invokation and usage of supernatural forces.  There are two kinds
of magic:  One kind is white magic, - the consistent use of constructive magic
for example - healing, etc.  The second kind is black magic:  the
concentration of destructive forces or energies and their usage.  For example:
Fire, lighting, etc.  Members of the magic-using profession are, because of
their high intelligence, often found as advisors in the courts of the mighty
Lords of the land.  In battle, they are the brilliant strategists, brooding in
the rear lines.  Another possible use of magic is the art of clerics and
healers, and their way of using of using these supernatural forces:  They
receive their spells directly from the gods:  These spells are not quite as
complicated as those of magicians and, because of their healing or
constructive nature, may not be as powerful in battle as the destructive
forces used by magicians.  The spells of healers and clerics are more useful
in healing and helping characters after combat.

MAGIC - HOW TO USE IT.
Magic is a force that is difficult to use, and difficult to control.  The use
of it needs absolute concentration.  The ability to concentrate is shown by
the number of magic points that a magician has.  A magician has a quantum of
concentrating ability per day, which becomes smaller after each spell cast.
The reduction in the number of magic-points is not so much dependent upon
which kind of spell is cast, but on the number of spells that are cast.  There
is a limit however:  Depending upon the mightiness of a spell, a certain
number of the same kind of spell may be cast per day.  I.e.  - a simple
"Light" spell may be cast four times in any one day, where as a spell of
"Healing", that can heal a whole group of adventurers, may only be cast once
per day.  Each of these spells cost only one magic-point.  The ability to
concentrate (magic-points) does not regenerate (as on other worlds) through
sunlight, or whatever, but may only be regained by resting.  Just as a
'normal' warrior would need to recover, a rest, or a good night's sleep does
wonders to a magician too.

MAGIC SPELLS.
A list of all magic spells that may be used by the magic-using character
classes is shown and described here, using the following key:
Name of spell......... How often...... Target.

- Description -
The "Name" of a spell is the type of spell and its decription recorded in the
great 'Book of Spells'.  "How often?" describes the maximum number of times
that this spell may be cast in one day.  "Target" shows the primary area of
force of this spell, aimed at by the magician or magic user.  This area may be
one of the following:
Companions.
A companion.
Enemy group.
All enemies.
An enemy.

THE MAGICIAN'S SPELLS:

Burning hands            08           An enemy.
This spell conjures up a flaming hand that appears in the midst of an opposing
group and attacks a member of that group.  The damage caused by this flaming
hand is more often than not, not very great.

Bringer of Light         04           - - -
This spell creates a source of light for an unknown length of time.  Under
normal circumstances, this spell produces light for about the same length of
time that a common or garden torch would do.

Magic Arrow              07           An enemy.
This spell produces an arrow of anti-matter that cannot miss its target.  The
damage caused by this arrow directly depends upon the experience or power of
the magician using it.

Shield I                 05           Companions.
Produces an invisible shield around the companion, protecting him from
opposing magic and improving his armour class.

Word of Sleep            06           Enemy group.
This spell casts the enemy group into a deep sleep, rendering them
defenseless.

Shocking grasp           06           An enemy.
To use this spell effectively, the magician must be in near contact to his
enemy.  When touched, the enemy sustains injury / damage by electric energy
being passed through him from the magician.

Permanent Light          02           - - -
With this spell, one chosen object may be loaded with the light energy of many
torches, - this saves carrying them.  This magically loaded object will then
produce the average candlepower of a torch for a long time, in fact - forever.

Fireworks                05           Enemy group.
The use of this spell creates a series of small explosions amidst the ranks of
the enemy group.  These not only injure, but also blind the enemy for a short
length of time.

Magic Net                06           An enemy.
A magic net is a nigh invisible net that confines an opponent and his combat
actions, reducing his fighting ability.

Words of Weakening       08           All enemies.
With the use of these "Words of Weakness", an enemy group will be bodily
weakened.  - Their attacks are not as devastating as they should be.  The
enemy group does not, however, sustain injuries as a direct effect of this
spell.

Lightning bolt           05           An enemy.
The magician invokes the 'Power of Nature' and calls upon 'Lightning', which
he then directs, according to his ability, at an opponent.

Invisibility             04           Companion.
The magician creates a sphere around the person of his choice, this sphere
diverts nearly all of those light-rays on a course towards this person, and so
avoid a reflection.  This spell has, however, not quite reached perfection.
In some way or other, one is still visible to those watchful..

Fireball                 05           Enemy group.
The magic user concentrates, and creates a fireball of intense energy amidst
an opposing group.  The explosion of which causes great damage, - it injures
and burns the enemy badly.

Ray of fire              05            All enemies.
This spell produces a ball of hot energy that the magician may aim and 'fire'
at will.  The heat from an attack like this causes bad burns and heavy damage
to an opponent.

Fading                   06            Companions.
This spell creates a flimmering vision of the group being able to rush here
and there in combat, thus making it difficult for the enemy to decide on an
effective line of attack.

Haste                    05            Companions.
The magician creates a spell that enables the companions to move twice as fast
as normal.  The only disadvantage of this spell being, - the companions age
twice as fast as normal...

Paralyze                 05            All enemies.
This spell is quite like the spell of sleep, the opponent is not able to move.
This spell normally lasts longer than that of sleep.

Shield II                04            Companions.
This magic formula is much the same as 'Shield I', but is just that much
stronger..

Slow                     05            Enemy group.
This spell is the opposite of the spell of quickness, however, the enemy is
slowed down, and therefore does not age as quickly as the group.

Blizzard                 05            Enemy group.
With this spell, the magician calls on the forces of nature, creating a
blizzard that reduces the enemy's ability to attack and defend, and, because
of the extreme cold, it reduces their life-energy.

Flame Shield             04            Companions.
This spell creates a burning shield, protecting the magician and the group
from the enemy.  This shield consists of fire and anti-matter, and should
deter intelligent creatures...

Word of Fear             04            All enemies.
This spell creates terror in the minds of the enemy.  The adversaries lose all
courage and flee in panic.

Word of altering         04            Enemy group.
This spell can change a creature into another life-form.  Quite useful in
turning a dragon into a frog for example, but beware:  It is said that this
spell does not always function properly, - and that a relatively harmless bat
has been turned into a (relatively?) harmless mountain troll...

Word of confusion        04            Enemy group.
The minds of the enemy are filled with a magical confusion, so that they
cannot define friend or foe, and attack anything within their ranks.

Summon Elemental         01            - - -
The recitation of this spell invokes a being from another dimension.  There
are four Elementals:  Earth, Wind, Fire, and Water.  After invoking, one of
the Elemental Spirits will fight alongside the group.  Owing to their god-like
qualities, they are powerful helpers when needed.

Icy ray                  03            An enemy.
The effects of this spell are much the same as those of the 'Ray of Fire', the
only difference being that the opponent's movements are slowed down due to the
cold.

Petily                   03            An enemy.
Unless averted, or avoided under extremely lucky circumstances - the target of
this spell will be turned to stone forever.  The only possibility of being
brought back to 'life' is through the use of advanced healing magic.

Death clouds             03            All enemies.
This formula creates a poisonous cloud within which all creatures that breath
oxygen are poisoned.  A magician should try to avoid being caught up in the
spell of his own creation...

Disintegrate             03            An enemy.
This spell attacks the basics of all 'being'.  The target of this spell
suffers the loss of all energy - all atoms separate, - the target
disintegrates.  Forever.

Word of death            02            All enemies.
This spell enables a magician to stop the biological functions of any enemy,
until death...  This spell is highly effective, but unwillingly used by all
magicians of principle and those magicians that practise the 'Grand Board of
Magicians Codices'.

Mindshock                03            All enemies.
This spell of 'brain stroke' incurs a kind of cerebral apoplexy to the enemy.
This kind of attack normally kills..  There are some species however, that can
survive such an attack, - this often proves their somewhat lower
intelligence...

MAGIC SHIELD             03            Companions.
A magical shield concentrates the air around the group, an individual member
cannot be envisaged exactly, and missiles, arrows, etc.  are slowed down on
entering this shield, causing less damage.

THE ILLUSIONIST'S SPELLS:

Acid Ray                 08            An enemy.
After reciting this spell, the illusionist is able to produce a jet of acid
from his fingertips, aimed at the target of his mental concentration.  The
result of this action is rarely lethal to the opponent, but can badly damage
the appearance of an opponent.

Colour rays              07           An enemy.
Depending upon the colour of the beam sent, an opponent sustains bodily damage
and / or damage to sight, hearing, or sense of touch.

Haste                    06           Companions.
This spell is powerful, but can be dangerous to the magician using it.  The
magician creates a zone in which time runs twice as fast, and the actions of
those under this spell also move twice as fast.  Those within this zone,
including the magician also age twice as quick as normal, the reason for which
magicians do not like using this spell as their lives are often short enough.

Magic Lantern            08           - - -
The illusionist creates a small flame that cannot be blown out or
extinguished, unless by magic.

Mud                      05           All enemies.
One effective way of stopping an enemy is to "pull the carpet" from under his
feet.  This spell creates a swamp around the enemies, making it impossible for
them to stand up and attack.

Phantom Armour           06            Companions.
The phantom armour is an effective protection for a comrade.  A magical suit
of plate armour is created around the figure of the magican's choice.  This
suit of armour absorbs all attacking energy, transporting the energy into
another dimension.  Most attacks are useless against this armour, but still a
degree of caution is still advisable when wearing this armour.

Magic Map                04             - - -
There are still no automatic cartographing machines in the world of Faerghail,
and sketching and mapping is therefore quite a laborious pastime.  An
ingenious magician by the name of Kwich Zbrglzik decided to put an end to this
by working out this spell, very much to the disappointment of dungeon
architects.  A legend tells of Kwich Zbrglzik being lynched by an angry mob of
builders.

Open Locks              03               - - -
This spell was also invented by the famous Kwich Zbrglzik, who at the time was
angered by the demands of a thief for opening doors and disposing of all traps
on the way to the room that Kwich wanted to enter.  This spell enables the
illusionist to open nearly all barred or locked doors.

Blind                   04                Enemy group.
This spell does not injure an enemy, but that is not the aim of this formula.
It may however, discourage an enemy from attacking, by blinding him for a
short length of time.

Smoke Cloud             05                All enemies.
This formula creates a cloud of smoke that smothers the enemy, blinding and
choking them.

Disarm traps            03                 - - -
This spell disables an already detected trap without causing damage.

Farsightedness          05                 - - -
This formula enables the illusionist to foresee an attack, giving himself and
the group enough time to prepare for combat.

Lightning               05                 An enemy.
The magician invoks the forces of nature and creates a powerful fork of
lightning.

Invisibility            04                 Companions.
Invisibility is not to be taken too light-heartedly.  - The enemy can't see
you but neither can a friendly archer, which can cause quite serious damage.
This kind of situation also caused the death of the inventor of this spell.

Ray II                  04                 An enemy.
This spell is the same as 'Ray I', but much stronger.

Entanglement            04                 Enemy group.
This spell creates invisible force fields around the enemy that 'entangle'
them as if they were tied up.

Polymorph               04                 Enemy group.
On recital, this formula changes, (for example) a terrifying ogre into a
harmless (?) rattlesnake.  This spell does not work on all creatures, dragons
seem to be immune to this kind of magic.

Surprise                06                 All enemies.
This spell creates an unexpected vision in the minds of the enemy.  This
surprise vision makes an enemy either attack one of his own group or renders
him useless.

Phantom Shield          04                 Companions.
This is quite like the magic shield used by magicians, does not afford such
intense protection however, and is useless against a magical attack.

Flame fist              04                 An enemy.
With use of this arcane formula, the illusionist creates a flaming fist with
which he may attack the enemy.  To use this, the illusionist has to throw a
punch at an enemy.  This however, is not like hand-to-hand combat, but is best
explained as a mixture of shadow boxing and trying to break doors in by
running backwards.

Heart attack            04                 An enemy.
This spell is easy to explain and is of terrible power.  The heart of an enemy
is just stopped, for a chosen length of time.  Normally no-one survives an
attack like this except Sivlanic Kobuk Lizards whose hearts are found at the
end of their incredibly long tails, but that's another story...

Slow down               04                 All enemies.
The illusionist creates a different time-sphere around a target of his choice
(generally an enemy).  Within this sphere, time is slowed down, and the group
may attack the slowed down enemy twice in any round.

Rainbow trues           03                 Enemy group.
An appearance, quite like a rainbow may be observed after the recital of this
spell.  Each of it's colors brings a lethal dose of magic down on the enemy.
Inconsistent in its effects, all scientific observation conclude that this
spell is only constant in its own inconsistency.

Phantom                 01                 Companions.
The illusionist creates a phantom that, because of its aggressiveness, draws
all enemy attacks towards it.  The phantom is, however only a shadow.

Sunlight                03                 Enemy group.
A magical source of light is created that has the power of sunlight.  This
source may be moved by the illusionist, blinding and burning an enemy and
deterring all creatures that avoid the light of day, - undead, etc.

Phantom prison          03                 Enemy group.
A phantom cage is created that may be placed around a companion or a whole
group, affording almost complete protection.  The only disadvantage of this
spell is that the so protected persons are not able to act as they might want
to.

THE DRUID'S SPELLS:

Glow                    10                 An enemy.
The recital of this spell causes the outlines of an enemy to glow, enabling
the group to hit more effectively.

Enchant Weapon          08                 A companion.
With this, the druid is able to enchant the weapon of a companion, so that,
(for example) a falling leaf would be cut in two by it.

Animal friendship       08                 All enemies.
This spell allows the druid to make friends with all wild animals, i.e wolves,
etc.

Firetrap                06                 An enemy.
The original use of this spell was to protect an object or persons.  Movement
activates this trap.  Nowadays, this spell has been modified, so that the
druid is able to direct this trap at a target of his choice, and activate it
immediately.

Healing I               06                 A companion.
This spell is identical to the 'Healing I' spell of clerics, this is because
some clerical spells have adopted by druids, only the formulas have been
adapted for druidic use.

Friendship              06                 An enemy.
Just the same as the spell 'Friendship with Animals', only this spell includes
friendship with humanoid species.

Wooden skin             05                 A companion.
The skin of this spell's target takes on a tree-like complexion and thickness.
- Useful in combat.  Most impressing and fascinating is the speed at which the
targets wounds and injuries heal.

Remove traps            04                 - - -
Anyone can deactivate a trap by running into it, not all can dispose of a trap
by the use of magic.

Flicker                 05                 Companions.
This spell places the group inside a flickering kind of shield.  The enemy
cannot focus on them, but the attacking strength and damage caused is reduced.

Summon Insects           05                 All enemies.
Quite like the 'Swarm of Hornets' spell, used by clerics, this spell summons a
swarm of insects, the blood-sucking, biting, and stinging effects of which are
devastating to any opponent.

Thunderbolt I            04                 An enemy.
This spell invokes the forces of nature and damages the enemy.

Thunderbolt II           04                 All enemies.
The same as above, this spell causes greater damage.

Woodkeeper               01                 - - -
A Woodkeeper is summoned that uses all his powers in supporting the group.  A
formidable ally...

Hailstorm                04                 All enemies.
This spell probably needs no explanation.  The size of the hailstones may vary
up to the size of walnuts, - causing bad damage.

Cyclone                  04                 All enemies.
The ability to create, and direct a cyclone of variable size has always been a
dream of all mankind, well, here it is, but only for druids.  Oh , by the way,
it causes great damage to an opponent.

Healing II              05                 A companion.
This spell is identical to the "Healing II" spell of clerics.

Summon Elemental        01                 - - -
This spell is identical to the 'Conjure Elemental' spell of magicians.

Fiery aerdite           04                 Enemy group.
This spell creates a storm of comets that the druid may direct at will.  The
chances of a creature surviving an attack like this are practically none.

Imbecility              05                 All enemies.
Should this attack succeed, the target's brain is reduced to the size of a
pea.

Sandstorm               03                 Enemy group.
This spell is also self-explanatory, The opponent is not just occupied in
trying to see or breathe, but also can hardly defend himself.

Death Ray               03                  An enemy.
A death ray is a combination of anti-matter, force-fields and Elemental
powers.  These combined forces create a sphere of destruction that no living
creature can survive.  This spell has a disadvantage, that being that it is
extremely difficult to control and aim...

THE CLERIC'S SPELLS"

Healing I               10                  A companion.
This is one of the most used spells in the world of Faerghail.  It may cure
lesser illnesses, light wounds, etc.  It cannot, however cure those suffering
heavy injuries.

Light                   08                  - - -
Light is much like the 'Bringer of light', used by magicians.

Fear evil                08                  - - -
With this, the cleric creates a protective aura, that dilutes all evil force
with good.  Protecting him from an attacking evil creature.

Bless                   07                  Companions.
A cleric may bless the group, improving the group's fighting morale - the
group hits harder.

Fear                    08                  All enemies.
This spell is highly effective when used against the creatures of darkness.
The positive powers of this spell are detected by all undead in the vicinity,
and causes them to flee.

Mental hammer            06                 An enemy.
This spell enables the cleric to concentrate his powers and project them into
the mind of an enemy.  This power is then let loose in the enemy's mind and
works quite like a hit on the head from a hammer, therefore the name of this
spell.

Singing                  06                 Companions.
This spell is quite the same as the 'Blessing', the only difference being that
the enemy's fighting morale is reduced.

Bindpersons              06                 Enemy group.
Quite like the illusionist's 'Entanglement', this spell compresses the air
around an enemy, restricting their movement ability.

Silence                  10                 All enemies.
A sphere of silence may stop the recitations of an enemy magician.  Very
effective against a group composing of more than one magician.

Relihel poison           08                 A companion.
This spell may cure a companion from poisoning of a lesser kind, or reduce the
effects of heavy poisoning.

Prayer                   05                 Companion.
A prayer cannot always work wonders, but at the right time, to the right god,
it may be of immense help, supporting the group in their cause.  However, if a
cleric has fallen in fault of the god of his Order, and a prayer is directed
at that particular god, it can happen that this god will appear in person, and
tell the cleric what he thinks of him!

Remove Curse             01                 Companion.
Curses are always quite unnerving things:  running around with a pig's head
instead of one's own, or needing to eat three times as many rations as normal,
is not much fun..  An ingenious cleric has found a fantastic formula against
this kind of thing, - and it works!

Healing II               05                 A companion.
The same as 'Healing I', just that much stronger.  Can be used to cure
somewhat heavier injuries.

Flame punch              05                 Enemy group.
This hand of fire from the elemental dimension may be used by the cleric like
his own hand.  The effect of a punch, or hit from this fiery hand is, however,
devastating...

Insect swarm             04                  All enemies.
On using this spell, a cleric calls on those forces normally reserved for
druids:  He conjures a swarm of hornets that he may direct and use at will.

Annihilate Evil         04                  An enemy.
This spell is a near relative of the spell 'Flax Undead', however, the 'Deter'
spell works at wide angle, whereas this spell concentrates its powers at one
object and destroys...  The effects of this are left to your own imagination.
Advice:  Not to be used by children, or adolescents, and definitely not by
clerics with a nervous stomach.

Bladewall                04                  An enemy.
With this spell, the cleric creates a wall infested with rotating knives,
which he may direct at a target of his choice.  The effects are quite like
those we may observe today in a kitchen mixer...

Summon Warrior           01                  - - -
By use of this spell, a fighter of the same alignment as the cleric appears,
and supports the group, and how he supports them, - he is a formidable
fighter..

Earthquake               03                 All enemies.
This spell is easily explained, - an earthquake is conjured, the earth shakes,
and swallows up the enemy.  But be warned:  one or two clerics at least have
been killed by their own magically created earthquakes.

Protection               03                 Companions.
This spell of protection is nearly the same as the 'Phantom Cage' spell used
by the illusionists.  It does not, however, protect the group from magical
attacks.

THE HEALER'S SPELLS:

FOREWORD:
Many of the healer's spells in this list are explained by examining the spells
of the same name in the other magic user's lists.  The reason for the spells
often being identical is because the 'Order of Trykeners' (all female, and
very peaceful), was founded much later, and adopted many magic formulas from
other magic users, adapting the spells to suit their own magic language.

Cure light Wounds        10                A companion.
This spell is identical to the 'Healing I' spell of clerics.

Singing                  06                Companions.
Quite like the spell of 'Blessing', this spell improves the group's fighting
morale, whilst reducing that of the enemy.

Shield                   06                A companion.
One of the universal spells used by all magic users, it's effects are that of
the magician's shield' spell.

Stun                     07                Enemy group.
This spell enables the healer to lame the nervous system of an opponent.  This
does not attack all organs of an opponent but at least reduces his fighting
power drastically.

Cure serious wounds     06                A companion.
This spell is identical to that of the clerics.

Light                    10                - - -
This spell is identical to the 'Light' spell used by magicians.

Bless                    06                Companions.
This spell is the same as the clerical 'Blessing'.

Cure Blindness            01                A companion.
The healer uses her powers to heal a blind companion.  Blindness, whether
caused by magical or by physical force, can be healed with the use of this
spell.

Healing III              04                A companion.
This spell heals even the most heavy wounds, and all lethal illnesses.

Cure Poison              01                A companion.
With this mixture of prayer and recitation, a healer can cure a companion of
almost all kinds of poisoning.  This spell, however, is very tiring for the
healer.

Refresh                  03                A companion.
After using this spell, the target is not only rested but has gained all
constitution, and can rejoin the fray.

Cure Illness             01                A companion.
This spell does heal wounds, but cures the patient of sickness.

Shelter                  03                Companions.
This spell creates a kind of shelter for the companions, enabling them to take
a short breath during hard fighting, to care for the wounded and strengthen
those still able to fight.  It is not possible to attack an opponent without
leaving this place of relative safety.

Threaten                 04                All enemies.
This spell is quite like the 'Words of Fear' used by magicians.

Dispell Undead           05                All enemies.
This spell is identical to the spell used by clerics.

Remove Curse             02                A companion.
This spell is identical to the spell used by clerics.

Restoration              01                Companions.
This spell is probably the most powerful of all used by healers.  It heals all
wounds and cures all sickness.  It does, however, need all the healer's
concentration and powers, so that she is not able to even move after reciting
it.

Magic Cage               01                A companion.
This spell produces the ultimate defensive weapon, quite like the 'Refuge',
but affords protection even against a magical attack.

THE BLACKSMITH'S SPELLS:

Disrupt                  04                All enemies.
With this spell, the blacksmith is able to create a horrendous din, disturbing
an enemy magician in concentrating on a spell.  There is tell, of a blacksmith
torturing his anvil to such a degree that his whole group was deafened for
life.

Dismay                   04                Enemy group.
This spell also uses sound and vibration:  The opponent is put under stress by
the din created, and runs away in panic.

Enchant Weapon           03                A companion.
The blacksmith uses this spell to concentrate his powers of metal-work to such
a degree that an opponent believes that the so-created weapon is magically
sharpened and all-powerful.

Enchant Armour           03                A companion.
The same as 'Magic Weapon', just that the armour produced has the same
qualities.

Crystal Ball             02                Companions.
The use of this spell enables the blacksmith to map a complete cellar or
dungeon level, even without a crystal ball.

Quake                    03                Enemy group.
Using this spell, the blacksmith creates a series of rhythmical, powerful
hammerings that make the earth shudder, damaging the structure of his target.
The effective use of spell can well produce a small earthquake in which the
enemy is swallowed or destroyed.

Paralyze                 03                Enemy group.
This mixture of rhythmic hammering on the anvil and recitation, create a din
of high vibrations that reverberate around the target's ears:  This lames
their nervous system and renders them near defenseless.

Vibration                02                All enemies.
This spell is quite like the 'Paralyze' spell, the damage caused is, however,
much greater and longer lasting, and may result in permanent disablement and
deafness.

Iron Sparks              02                Enemy group.
The recital of this spell increases the power of hammer strokes on the anvil,
and leads to a shower of burning sparks directed at the enemy.

Titan Fist               01                Companions.
The 'Titanic Fist' is the most powerful of all known magic spells.  The use of
this spell can destroy all walls and demolish all stone structures that would
normally be unconquerable.  The material aspects of this spell (if used by a
demolition company) have not been recorded, and shall not be gone into...

VI. LOADING AND STARTING.
Place the "Legend of Faerghail" disc 'o' in the internal floppy-drive.  Press
CTRL and both Amiga keys - (RESET).  After a short time, an introductory
sequence will appear.  - (Can be ignored by holding down the left
mouse-button).  The Amiga Workbench will then appear.  Click twice on the
"Legend of Faerghail" disc symbol.  A window displaying the "Legend of
Faerghail" program symbol will appear, click twice on this symbol.  The
program is then loaded and starts.

VII. GAMEPLAY.

SCREEN INFORMATION

a) Character study
Here is a numerical list of all characters.  Advice:  Those characters less
likely to gain experience points in combat should be placed at the top.  Using
the left mouse button, click on a character button, a graphic and an overview
of that character will then be shown.  To exit this screen press the right
mouse button.

b) Graphic window
This is the visual link to the world of Faerghail.  Graphics and gaming area
are shown here.

c) Text window
When in somewhat stranger circumstances, additional, important information is
shown here.  This information is shown even when actions are being carried out
by the player.

d) General information screen
This screen shows the name of the actual place of play, movement direction,
time of day, morale of the group, and the number of rations left.  When in
combat, this screen serves as a combat overview:  A view of the battle from
above from above is shown, and the owners of a RAM-upgrade are shown an
animated combat sequence.

Character data
a) Name of character
b) Characters number
c) Profession
d) Constitution
e) Armour protection (in %)
f) Hit points (in %)
g) Available spells (in %)

CHARACTER DISPLAY
A character's current data is shown in the character display that shall be
explained here.  This summary is divided into several pages of information.
Page one may look like this.

Elgra: Lawful-good               Healer Human
Rnk      18  Hitpoints           0096/ 0099
             Magic points        0025/ 0025
Str      14
Con      19  Health              Healthy
Dex      19  Experience          00000067898
Int      10
Wis      19  Weight              0059/ 0490

(E)xchange gold/ rations
(N)ext page
(C)ontinue

The first line shows the name, alignment, sex and profession of a character.
Our example obviously presents a lawful-good healer of the female sex.  The
character attributes are shown on the left-hand side of this display.  These
are:

Rnk         Experience level
Str         Strength
Con         Health
Dex         Dexterity
Int         Intelligence
Wis         Wisdom

Last, but not least, the actual and maximum values for Hit-points,
magic-points, and load.  'Experience' shows the number of experience points.
'Constitution' shows the actual health of the character (healthy,
poisoned,etc.) The next page information is shown after pressing (N)ext, or
clicking on the appropriate page line.  Page two presents an overview of those
objects, artifacts, gold and rations carried by the character.  Page two
should look like this:

Elgra:                   Load:       0059/ 0490
Rations:     14          Gold:       0008 Gp
1    E       Robe          94%       81 lb
2    E       Staff         98%       51 lb
3            Spellbook     100%      61 lb
4    +       Crystalsword  100%      12 lb
5    +       Inquisitor    100%       6 lb
6
7
8

(E)xchange gold/ rations
(N)ext page
(C)ontinue

After the name of the character, the actual and maximum load carried is shown
along with the number of rations and the amount of gold carried.  Underneath,
a list of objects that the character has on his person is shown.  Should this
list be longer than that shown on the screen, two arrows are shown alongside,
enabling the user to scroll up and down.

Apart from the name of the object, other information is shown, for instance, -
if the object is in use, or worn by the character an 'E' is shown, if an
object cannot be used by the character a '+' is shown, followed by the
condition of the object (80%, 90%, 100%, etc.) and the weight (51 lb, 81 lb,
etc.) Our example shows that the robe is worn by Elgra ('E'), that it is in
good condition (94%), and that it weights 81 lb.  Objects may be worn,
discarded, or given to other characters by clicking on the object or pressing
its number.  A menu will then be shown allowing the discarding or exchange of
objects.  The next page of character information is especially important for
those magic-using professions.  Important:  Page 3 is not shown for characters
that cannot use magic.  A list of magic spells is shown, and information on
how often a particular spell may be used.

Elgra:
Magic: 21/ 25
1    Heal light wounds    10  /  10
2    Sing                  6  /   6
3    Shield                6  /   6
4    Lame                  7  /   7
5    Heal heavy wounds     6  /   6
6    Light                 6  /  10
7    Bless                 6  /   6
8    Cure blindness        1  /   1

(E)xchange gold/ rations
(N)ext page
(C)ontinue

'Magic' shows the number of magic spells that may still be used, and the
maximum number of spells per day.  Elgra has already used four spells, she may
use another 21.  A list of spells follows, scrolling is also possible should
the list be too long.  The numbers after each spell show how often the spell
may be used per day.  The 'Light' spell has been used by Elgra four times this
day.  The next page (page 4) shows information on the special abilities of a
character.  Elgra's table looks like this:

Elgra:
Parley/ Negotiate      10%
Attack                  5%
Defend                  6%
Concentrate            88%
Pick-pocket            34%
Sneak/ Creep           34%
Trap finding           39%
Trap disposal          39%
Open doors             34%

(E)xchange gold/ rations
(N)ext page
(C)ontinue

After each special ability, a value is shown informing the player of the
actual ability of that character, - Elgra's 88% for concentrating ability is a
typical value for a magic-using character.  The last page of information (page
5) shows a list of languages that a character can speak:

Elgra:
Speaks:      Common language
             Animal language
             Orc tongue
             Troglodyte/ lizard language
             Dwarf language
             Elven language
             Dark language
             Magic language

(E)xchange gold/ rations
(N)ext page
(C)ontinue

The name of each language spoken by the character is listed.  Languages that a
character does not speak are not listed.

VIII. OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS.

SAVING AND LOADING A GAME.
Is the program loaded, enter the tavern and click on "(D)ata load":  type in
the name and directory of the game to be saved / loaded, and press RETURN.  If
in wilderness or dungeons, click the right mouse button in the text window,
the mouse menu is then shown, then click on the menu function "File options".
This function is also found by using the keyboard - just press "O".  It is
advisable to periodically save your game, avoiding system fall outs etc.

ADDITIONAL USER-AID PROGRAMS.
For some computer systems there are additional aid programs supplied with this
package.

a) FORMAT
Formats a disc for game saves, in the standard format of your computer system.
The disc is given the name looked for by the main program.

b) InstHD
Some versions are allowed to be installed on your hard drive disc.  To
install, run the program "InstHD" from the game disc.  The game must be used
in a main directory, second- level directories are not allowed!  All other
information needed is called for by the program.
After installing, the program will ask if it should modify the Command file
for starting your hard disc.  Should you choose "Y"es, the command file is
modified, adding on three lines of text.  The "Legend of Faerghail" is then
directly started by clicking on the game icon when the hard disc is ready.

TRANSFER
This program was written to enable the user to transfer a well loved character
from another role playing game.  This program transfers characters from the
following games:
Phantasie I @ SSI
Phantasie III @ SSI
Bard's Tale I Tales of the Unknown @ Interplay
Bard's Tale II The Destiny Knight @ Productions / Electronic Arts.

After starting this program, it will ask for the origin of the desired
character to be transfered.  Place the desired game/ character disc in the
drive.  The character data is then converted.  The program will then ask if
this character should be taken over into "The Legend of Faerghail" game, press
"Y" for yes or just RETURN.  More often than not, your well loved character
will be down graded for "Faerghail" - a character too strong would make this
game too easy.  The profession of a transfered character is also not always
the same - for example the bard is not a profession in Faerghail.  in this
case, a profession is chosen that needs the same kind of experience as the
transferred has, or a profession is chosen that is of importance to the group.
The maximum number of characters that may be saved on the main disc is 32.
This limit goes for both created or transfered characters.

IX. HELP.

A QUICK START...
After loading, you will find yourself in the tavern in the town of Thyn.  All
journeys start from this point of contact, where adventurers and brave
warriors meet, seeking others to join them on their journeys.  Your
predicament is quite the same, in order to fulfill your mission you have to
find up to six trusty companions who'll join you on your journey.  You now
have two choices:  - You can recruit a whole group of fully equipped
adventurers, or try to recruit individuals on your own.  To recruit, click on
the menu function (R)ecruit or press the "R" key.  A list of characters will
appear showing their names, professions, and experience levels.  Click on the
chosen character or press the key according to his number.  When six
characters have been recruited, this menu will automatically close.  To
recruit characters of your own accord, choose the '(L)ook for new character'
menu function.  A new menu will then appear, presenting you with the
possibility of choosing the attributes that the new character should have.  To
choose a character click on (L)ook.  Should this character suit your purpose,
then click on (A)ccept.  This new character must then be given a name:  up to
ten letters may be typed in.

IMPORTANT:
No two characters can have the same name.  A maximum of 32 characters may be
found and saved.  Should a character not suit your desires do not (A)ccept,
but click on (R)eject, or just press the right mouse button.  This allows one
to "Search" indefinitely.  Have you found enough characters for your journey,
recruit them as described, and the mission can begin...  Leave the tavern by
clicking on, or pressing (C)ontinue, or just press the right mouse button.
-Throughout the game, pressing the right mouse button, space, or return key
will '(C)ontinue'.  To leave the town, '(C)ontinue as above.  You will then be
well on your way and arrive outside the town, in the wilderness of the valley
of Faerghail.  Its early morning, and the sun rises, red, in the East.  -
Important:  try to observe the position of the sun as you will not, at this,
have any kind of compass..

End.
