                        RED STORM RISING

Typed by Sierra Hotel.  Edited by PARASITE.


PREFACE BY TOM CLANCY
   The submarine tactics with which most of us are familiar never really
happened. We've all seen the dramatic movie representations of sweating men
in the tight confines of a fleet boat's conning tower. But in fact the most
effective work done by submarine commanders in WWII was conducted on the
"roof", where they could use their higher surface speed to conduct "end
runs",get ahead of their targets, then close in and fire at close range
before escaping in the confusion.
   Technology has changed all that, even while it was happening in the
Second World War. Improved radar sets and continuous aerial surveillance
chased German U-Boats below the surface even at night. This denied them the
mobility upon which they depended to close with thier targets, and in doing
so cost Germany her best chance of winning the Second World War.
   Nuclear power and improved sonar technology changed things yet again in
the 1950's. A nuclear-powered submarine can now outrun most surface ships,
and modern passive sonar can actually out-range the radar used by American
WWII submarines. It is not unusual today for a submarine to detect a surface
ship, on sonar, at ranges over thirty nautical miles. Torpedoes, once
relatively simple machines that ran a straight course until they hit a
target or ran out of fuel, are now robotic kamikazes, programmed to search
for thier targets with active and passive sonars, then close on and
destroy it with a half-ton (or nuclear) warhead. Or the submarine skipper
can fire surface-to-surface cruise missles that easily fly those thirty
nautical miles.
   But one thing has remained constant: the business of a submarine is
stealth. Once detected, the enemy surface commander has more ships and
weapons to use than the submarine. Helicopters with sonobuoys and dipping
sonars-the submarine's deadliest enemy-can hunt and localize their quarry,
then engage it with homing torpedoes of thier own. You are safe only so long
as you are undetected. Your only real advantage is invisibility. Submarine
warfare is ambush, followed by evasion; a game of life and death played in
three dimensions of cold, wet, unforgiving darkness.
   The submarine's other enemy is another submarine. He lives in your
enviroment, knows everything that you know, is trained, armed, and equipped
as you are. And enemy submarines are getting better. The Walker spy ring and
foriegn companies like Toshiba have given the Soviets priceless information
and hardware with which they have been improving their ships and their
training. Their mission is to sink you, to sink the other ships in your
fleet, and to sink the merchant ships without which your country and the
NATO alliance cannot survive. Simply put, the job of the United States Navy
is  to control the sea. The job of the Soviet Navy is to deny us the use of
the sea. You can guess which is the easier mission.

   You are the commanding officer of an American SSN, a nuclear-powered
fast-attack submarine. The word has only just arrived from National Command
Authority: Your country is at war. All during the spring of this year, while
you prepared your boat for her next deployment, the media was full of
stories about the Spring of Promise, perhaps the long-hoped-for end of the
cold war, as East-West arms-control agreements reached fruition after
generatoins of frustrating effort. Then only days after you sailed on
your deployment, something went wrong. Some disaster changed hopes of
lasting peace to fear of a real, shooting war. You do not know what
happened-SSN's don't get much in the way of news analysis-but none of that
matters. Your country is at war, and war-fighting is what they pay you for.
   You are thirty-nine years old. A graduate of the United States Naval
Academy, you've worked your way up the ladder of your chosen profession:
Nuclear Power School; Prototype School; Submarine Officers Basic
School;Prospective Nuclear Engineer Officer School; Submarine Officers
Advanced Course; Prospective Executive Officer Course; then, Prospective
Commanding Officer School; and along the way you picked up a Masters Degree
in Operations Analysis at the Navy's own post-Graduate School at Monterey,
Califorina. You've served both on SSN's and SSBN's- the "boomers", the
ballistic-missile submarines-but fast-attack was what you wanted, because
fast-attack is where the action is. You've been an Engineer, a Navigator,
then an XO. All this has a price. Endless cruises far from home, seperations
from your loved ones, mini-wars at AUTEC in the Bahamas, fleet excercises in
mid-ocean, too many exams and tests to count, month-long strings of
eighteen-hour days. But what that price has bought you is association with
and respect from the finest men your country can make. You have spent
seventeen years learning your craft, and six months ago you achieved a dream
you've held since high school-command of your own SSN.
   You are now the commanding officer of a ship of war, the most demanding
and most god-like job in the world. You are responsible for the saftey of
your ship, for the lives of over one hundred men, and most of all, you are
responsible for carrying out the missions assigned you by COMSUBLANT and
COMEASTLANT. You know why you are here. You know what the job is.
   You are about to find out how good you really are.

A QUICK START
   The Manual: This manual is divided into 3 parts. Part 1 gives specific
instructions for all simulation displays and controls. Part 2 provides
greater insight into the tactics, tricks, and subtleties of the game. Part 3
provides background data on weapons, ships,and boats involved. (Bullshit.
It's only there for the purpose of code words, the game shows a picture of a
ship or sub and you suppoed to choose the correct class of ship. It has been
disabled in this version and therefore I ain't puttin' in section 3)
Beginners should learn how the game is played before tackling the Campaign.
So, if this is your first try at Red Storm,select training scenarios,
experiment with the displays, make some kills, then move on to the next
higher challenge.

BATTLES AND CAMPAIGNS
   Battles: Once you've cut your teeth in the traing scenarios, it's time to
try a "real" battle. Not much here. Try all the battles, with differing
degrees of challenge, and don't be supprised if your ambushed. It happens in
real life too. After experimenting with a variety of battles, select "a
chance engagement", where you never know what you're up against. You may
find that adjusting your boat or time period makes life more interesting.
   The Campaign: You should move on to a campaign shortly after trying the
chance engagements, it won't take long to get the hang of things. The game
gets old after playing thru several campaigns, so try switching time periods
and boats to keep the games interesting. It won't take long to get to the
Ultamite challenge level, and after a couple of campaigns, you will be
ready for a new game. Red Storm isn't hard to master, but will be fun each
time you play it.

EFFICIENCY RATING, ETC.
   Efficiency Rating (ER): After each engagement, your ER is updated as a
USNavy captain. It's the average of your performance to date. Obviously, the
higher the better you are.
   Decoratoins and Medals: Occur only in the campaign game.
CM-Navy Commendation  BSV-Bronze Star of Valor  SS-Silver Star
DSM-Distinguished Service Medal  NC-Navy Cross
CMOH- Congressional Medal Of Honor, the highest.
   Promotions: None here. Only after war is over, it will give a final rank.
The USNavy needs the experianced CO's to fight the war.

PART 1: THE OPERATIONS MANUAL
   The Year: 1984-Russian naval forces lack "stolen" western technology.
However, your sub is limited to weapons availible at the time: the original
Mark 48 torpedo and the Harpoon missle
             1988-The new Russian SIERRA and KILO class subs appear, as well
as the first fruits of the stolen technology from the West. However, you
have the new Tomahawk missle and the improved Mark 48 ADCAP torpedo. This
scenario represents the situation at the time of the action in the novel RED
STORM RISING.
             1992-A nuclear aircraft carrier joins the Red Banner Fleet,
while technological upgrades spread to more of their vessels. Meanwhile, the
Sea Lance ASW missle and the Stinger SAM masts are availible to NATO.
             1996-The Russian northern fleet continues to expand in size and
virtually all frontline ships have received technological upgrades.
Fortunately for the West, the first boats in the new Seawolf class are
launched, carrying the new silent-launching ("Swim Out") Mark 48 torpedo.

Warship ID Test: Just pick anything, it won't matter, that part has been
deleted, or shall I say "corrected".

Boat Selection: List from older to newer, and depends on which time period
you picked. You can let the Navy pick your command for you for better
realism.

LEVEL OF CHALLENGE:
   Introductory-recommended for the first few games. Compared to reality,
enemy ships are easier to find and track, while your sub is very resistent
to damage and your crew quit expert.
   Normal-for casual gaming the books says. Skip it and move on.
   Serious-fully realistic the book says. Try a few and then go to the next
level of play
   Ultimate-just as realistic as Serious, but takes a less optimistic view
of sub survivability (one hit, you go down). In this level, you must
personally ID every contact, your crew being too indecisive. The book says
not to try this level unless Serious seems like childs play. It better, if
your not up to Ultimate in just a few battles, you're a hurtin' puppy!

Scenarios:  3 types, training, battles, and campaign
Training:   you take NO DAMAGE
            level of challenge decides location of fight
            intro-open sea
            normal-drift/floe ice
            serious-beneath ice pack(except for vs. destoyer)
            ultimate-in the shallows
Battle simulations:
            A duel: go one-on-one with a nuclear attack sub
            The cruise missle sub: higher challenges often add one or more
            escorting "guardians"
            The wolfpack: group of subs using wolfpack tactics
            The boomer bastion: find the boomer among it's fast attack
            escorts and sink it, can be very difficult.
            a strike group: task force of Russion surface ships
            an ASW group: an anti-sub force which may or may not have subs
            in it. Can you successfully hunt the hunters?
            a carrier task group: you've stumbled into a submarinr's dream:
            a Russian carrier task force. A chance at a Russian carrier is an
            oppurtunity you won't want to miss. No big deal to me. Once
            you've sunk a carrier, they're all the same.
            a chance engagement: a random choice of one of the above
Red Storm Rising: WWIII, from first invasions to victory or defeat. Lasts
many missions and many hours.

Mission Orders: self-expanitory, tells ya what to do

BATTLE:ENGAGING THE ENEMY
Attack Center Console:Shows the primary, secondary, and navigation displays.

   --------------------------------------------------------------------
   - --------        ------------------------------------             -
   - -      -        -           Top Display            -             -
   - -      -        ------------------------------------             -
   - -      -   /                                                     -
   - -      -   -----------  Navigation Display                       -
   - -      -   \                                                     -
   - -      -                                                         -
   - -      -                   Primary Display                       -
   - -      -                                                         -
   - --------                                                         -
   - -      -                                                         -
   - -      -   /                                                     -
   - -      -   ---------- Secondary Display                          -
   - -      -   \                                                     -
   - -      -                                                         -
   - -      -   --------------------------------------------------    -
   - -      -   -        Verbal Reports                          -    -
   - --------   --------------------------------------------------    -
   --------------------------------------------------------------------

   Navigation Display: This info is always present
   Primary Display: Select from one of eight primary displays
   Secondary Displays: Select one of five secondaries; some primary displays
                       automatically bring up a secondary
   Verbal Reports: Reports and confirmation of orders appear here
   Top Display: shows sensor functioning
                A=Active sonar T=Towed array  R=Radar
            passive sonar is constantly on and ESM is auto on above 55 feet
            also shows Acoustic Volume (AV) of your sub, measure of how loud
            you are as you move thru the water. Also shows zoom factor.

NAVIGATION: SHOWS HOW YOUR BOAT IS TRAVELING
   Heading: north is 000degrees, south is 180, etc......
   Speed: in knots. A "C" symbol indicates your  propellers(screw is what
they should be called) are cavitating(making large amounts of noise). As you
go deeper, you can go faster and faster without cavitation.
   Depth: in feet. A special symbol indicates wheter you're above or below
the thermal "layer". The "layer" interferes with sound-keeping the thermal
layer between you and the enemy is a good way of hiding.
   Rudder: current course command. "Steady" indicates running straight
ahead.
   Planes:current setting of diving planes, which control the depth of the
boat. "Level" indicates running level(not changing depth)

   Course: to set a course, hit F10 key, type in one to three digits for
course, from 000 to 360.
   Depth: to set depth, hit F9 key, type in from one to three digits, from
010 to 999. NOTE:Modern nuclear subs never surface during battle. There is
no advantages and lots of disadvantages. In fact, surfacing means "I
surrender". Therefore, minimum depth is 10 feet. That's what the book says,
actually, surfacing and going to max spped is good for taking out surface
ships, doesn't work to good on subs though.
   Speed: to increase speed, hit + key, or - key to decrease speed. When
turning or after substaining damage, speed will decrease.
   Emergency Turns:use . key and , key for right and left rudder, useful
when dodging torpedoes. Sharp turns or fast speeds will break a control wire
to all of your torpedoes, so use the two sparingly.
   Straight and Level: the / key will cancel all navigation commands and you
will be at the course and depth you were at when selected.

TACTICAL DISPLAY   F1 KEY
   F1 key puts your location and all contacts on the primary display. Zoom
in and out with the z and x keys. From zoom fgactor of 2 to 7.
   This is the main display used most frequently. Enemy vessels first appear
on this display as dim symbols. The direction is accurate, but usually the
range is unknown. As your sensors collect more info over time, the accuracy
of the info increases and the symbol changes color. When detection data is
good enough, the display plots a course track, recording his movements. If
contact is lost, the symbol gives a "best guess" of enemy's position. Course
tracks also appear for all weapons in the water, yours and theirs. You can't
see the airborne enemies(missles and helos) unless you're at periscope depth
with radar on. NOTE: Dim, uncertain contacts will bounce around the
display,don't put too much trust in the "dim" contacts.

Map Overlay: haven't figured out how to get up on the Amiga. Shows an
overlay of water conditions. Shows acoustic absorption, depth of the
shallows, or icepack pressure ridges, depending on situation.
Acoustic Absorption-in deep water with or without drift ice, shows the local
conditions for sound absorption. Darker areas with few dots absorb little
sound resulting in good sound transmission and recception. Lighter areas
with more dots absorb more, causing poorer transmission and reception.
In shallow water, this map overlay shows the depth of the water. Each digit
represents one hundred feet. 2=200ft, 4=400ft,etc....the deeper the water,
the better the sound transmission, worse in shallow water.Of course, running
into the bottom of the ocean floor is hazardous to your life! When operating
under the ice pack, the overlay shows the depth of the ice into the water.
The sames applies for ice ridges as with the bottom, i.e. don't run into the
ice.

SENSORS
Sensors are devices that find and track the enemy. "Passive" sensors
constantly "listen" for enemy signals without emitting any betraying
signals. "Active" sensors broadcast a signal and "listen" for the return.
Active sensors function  only if turned on, give detailed data quickly, but
often reveal your location to the enemy.

   View Contacts: hit the C button to rotate thru contacts on the secondary
display. When viewing contacts, the incoming sound from that contact is
channeled to the screen.
   Contact: The type of enemy contacted. This progresses from totally
unknown to general type (ship or sub) to a specific class of ship. The word
CONTACT may change color to indicate whether the contact is continuing, or
is lost (and the data deteriorating).
   Bearing: The direction, in compass degrees, from you to the contact. Your
course does not affect the bearing.
   Sensor: The left value is the signal strength recieved on your sensor,
and which sensor has the best reception(A=active P=passive T=towed R=radar).
You can't see a contact until a signal strength of at least 8  is recieved,
but once you've found a contact, a signal strength of 0 or more is enough to
maintain the contact. If signal strength is negative, you've lost the
contact. The right value is the signal strength the enemy's best sensor
would get from your boat. This is known only if you know the enemy's
specific class, and thus can predict what sensor equipment he has. When his
predicted sensor value reaches 8 or higher, he will "see" you. Don't get
complacent because no contacts show an 8 or higher. Your contact data may
still be incomplete, and worse, there could be "unseen" enemies who alredy
"have you number".
   SOL: The acurracy of your data. The highest is 99%, which can still be
inaccurate. Low percentage solutions are very unreliable.
   CRS/SPD: The contact's course and speed (in compass heading and knots).
   Range: range to contact (in thousands of yards). The vertical arrow
symbol represents his position above or below the thermal layer.
   Passive Sonar(P): unless damaged by a hit, this sensor is always working
(i.e. no key controls it's operation). Passive sonar gives the bearing to
the enemy with great accuracy. In addition it lets you slowly determine the
type of enemy ship. Once that is known, estimates of speed, course, and
range develop quickly.
   Towed Array(T): This long, computerized array of hydrophones is towed
("streamed") behind your boat. It functions only when trailing in a straight
line or a smooth curve. Any tight or fast turns causes "kinks" and
"whiplash" that ruin reception. Similarly, if you come to a full stop, it
goes slack and fails. You must maintain "headway", a minimum speed of 4 or 5
knots, to keep the array fucntioning. Because the towed array trails dee in
the water, it always listens under the layer, even if your sub is above it.
The towed array functions like passive sonar, but is much more sensitive.
   Active Sonar(A): hit the 8 button to toggle active sonar on and off. One
active sonar "ping" gives the exact bearing and range to a contact. Multiple
pings establish the contact's course and speed. Unfortunaately, these pings
also reveal your location to the enemy.
   The Baffles: Your boat's motion leaves an area of confused and disturbed
water directly behind it. Sound travels poorly in this area, called "the
baffles". It is about 60 degrees wide (30 degrees on each side). More on
this later. Your hull-mounted passive and active sonars are "blind" in the
baffles. Your towed array is unaffected, since it trails far to the rear,
safely below the disturbed water.

TYPE OF      SENSING        ADVANTAGES               DISADVANTAGES
SENSOR       MEDIUM

Active    water:sound     -1 ping gives range     -reveals position to enemy
Sonar                     -multiple pings give     at longer ranges than it
                           detailed data           can detect them
                                                  -works best at 0 knots
                                                  -limited to 300 degree arc

Passive   water:sound     -recieves only, does    -gives data slowly
Sonar                      not reveal position    -provides range last
                          -gives bearing fast     -works best at 0 knots
                          -longer range than      -limited to 300 degree arc
                           active sonar in most
                           conditions

Towed     water:sound     -longer range than      -stops working during and
Array                      active or passive       after hard and/or fast
                           sonar in most           turns, high speeds
                           conditions             -stops working at 0 knots
                          -works best at 5 knots
                          -total 360 degree arc

Active    air:radar       -best, often only way   -signal reveals position
Radar                      to track aircraft or    to all ships and planes
                           incoming missles        in area, and subs at
                          -range equal to ESM      mast depth
                          -unaffected by speed

ESM       air:radar       -receives only, sends   -mast may reveal position
(Radar                     no revealing signal    -does not detect sub
Receiver)                 -range superior to       unless it is using
                           periscope/laser, can    active radar
                           be superior to sound
                          -unaffected by speed

Periscope air:light       -sends no revealing     -mast may reveal position
(with laser)               signal to enemy        -mast needs to be higher
                          -can track aircraft      than ESM or Active Radar
                           with some difficulty    to achieve equal range
                          -unaffected by speed

FACTORS IN SONAR SENSORING

FACTOR                   EFFECT

Acoustic Absorption     -the greater the absorption around sensor and/or
                         target, the lower the contact value
Surface Noise           -the greater the ocean surface noise, the lower the
                         contact value, provided either or both vessels are
                         near the surface. Icepack has the lowest suface
                         noise, open sea or shallows is average, drift/floe
                         ice produces very high noise
Surface Duct            -if sensor and target are both in surface duct,
                         contact value is increased; the stronger the duct,
                         the greater the contact value
Thermal Layer           -if sensor and target are on opposite sides of the
                         layer, contact value is reduced; the stronger the
                         layer, the lower the contact value
Water Depth             -the shallower the water, the lower the contact
                         value. This only applies in shallow water.
Icepack                 -the deeper the ridge of ice, the lower the contact
                         value.
Diastance to target     -the greater the range, the lower the contact value
Direction target faces  -if target's broadside faces sensor, contact value
                         is slightly increased(very small change)
Speed of target         -higher speed=higher contact value
Quietness of target     -quieter vessel design=lower contact value
Speed of sensor         -the higher your speed=lower contact value

SEA CONDITIONS
   This primary display provides a handy visual reference about current
conditions at various depths. Hit the F8 key.

COMPARE SONAR
   Hit the F6 key to compare your sonar aagainst that of the contact.

ACOUSTIC SIGNATURE
   Hit the F5 key to compare incoming sound data with data files about enemy
ships to ID the class of ship. Normally, the crew does this. But in Ultimate
challenge level, you must do this for all contacts. Use the shift key to
select different clases to compare to the incoming data. Once you've found a
match, use Ctrl key to positively ID the contact. If you've choosen wisely,
the class of the ship is displayed with the contact data and the firing
solution increases. If you didn't choose the correct class, the firing
solution decreases alot.

SURFACE SENSORS
   The sensors mounted on the masts that come out of the sail (used to be
called conning tower) have different degrees of effectiveness, depending on
how high they stick out of the water. Each mast is 60 ft. long, so if you're
at 15 ft., the mast will stick out of the water 45ft. The greater the mast
sticks out of the water, the greater the range (due to the curvature of the
earth). At 10ft. (minimum depth) radar can see 100 Kyds and periscope 50.
Whenever you're at 55ft or less, your ESM mast is out of the water and you
risk detection. Hit the F4 key to look thru the periscope and hit c button
(view contact button) to rotate thru contacts. This is not reccomended.
NOTE: You CAN find NATO ships and subs, so make sure you ID something before
you shoot it.

SHIP DATA BASE
   Hit the F7 key to get this primary display. Then choose letter of class
you want info on. Not much real use.

WEAPONS
   All weapons are "intelligent": they have a homing system that "turns on"
at a pre-planned point (the PAP:pre-planned activation point). From this
point forward, the weapon "sees" in a 90 degree arc ahead of it, seeking the
nearest target (this can also mean YOU).
   Ice and Missles: All weapons except torpedoes launch themselves from the
sea into the air. In drift/floe ice conditions, there is a 25% to 50% chance
that the missle may hit a piece of ice as it emerges from the sea, which
wrecks the missle. A Sea Lance's torpedo head must drop back into the water
at the PAP, and again there is a chance of hitting ice. Stinger mast has
problems too. Though hitting the ice with the mast will only destroy one
stinger, not the whole mast. Beneath the ice pack, don't try wasteing your
missles on the ice, unless you can find "open water" areas.

WEAPON          AVAIL.                 SPEED  RANGE   CONTROLS AVAILABLE
NAME            FROM  TARGETS WARHEAD (KNTS) (KYDS)

Mk 48           1984 sub,ship large   40,55  0-40    wire,PAP homing,search
Mk 48 ADCAP     1988 sub,ship large   40,60  0-40    wire,PAP homing,search
Mk 48 Swimout   1996 sub,ship large   40,60  0-40    wire,PAP homing,search
Harpoon UGM     1984 ship      mdm     560   6-120   PAP homing
Tomahawk TASM   1988 ship     large    475   6(or 8)-500   PAP homing
Tomahawk TLAM   1988 land     large    475   6-1000  pre-programmed
Sea Lance/Mk 50 1992 sub      small    625+  6-60    PAP homing,search
FIM-92A Stinger 1992 aircraft  tiny    1260  0-6     PAP homing

torpedoes have active and passive speeds, Sea Lance does work on ships too
wire-means the launcher can control the weapon while it's running, provided
the wire is intact. PAP homing-means the weapons goes to the PAP and the
activates, searching a 90 degree arc in front of it. If weapon is jammed, it
continues flying straight ahead unless other controls take over(wire or
search). Search-if the weapon misses, it circles, searching for a target.
Pre-progammed at port-means the weapon has a guidance program loaded into it
that can't be changed on the boat, must return to port to select another
target.

WEAPONS LOADOUT
   This secondary display shows the weapons availible and the reserves in
your magizine. Hit the V button once to see what's loaded in which tube. Hit
it again to see reserves in magizine.
To load an empty tube: hit the shift key and the weapon key at the same
time. This will load selected weapon in first availible empty tube.
To load a loaded tube: hit the shift key and weapon key and if all tubes are
full, you're promted with "which tube do you which to unload". Just select
the desirde tube and it will switch weapons in that tube.
3=stinger (doesn't need to be loaded, it has it's own mast)
4=Mk 48     5=Sea Lance    6=Harpoon UGM     7=Tomahawk
It takes time to load the weapons, so a light weapon name in the loadout
displays indicates that the crew is still loading and the weapon isn't
ready for use.

MK 48 WIRE GUIDED TORPEDO
   Once lauched, you can guide it by means of a wire until it hits the
target, runs out of fuel, or has the wire cut by high speed, tight turns, or
if it's coming after you, you can drop the wire (cut it yourself). If it is
cut, the 48 will go on a pre-programmed search pattern (circle left or
circle right). A 48 can be launched at any depth,min. range is a few hundred
yards.
Firing the 48:
1. Hit the 4 key. This brings up the torpedo fire control computer, where
you select the PAP.
2. Use the mouse or joystick to select the PAP. This is where the 48 will
switch on it's active sonar, increase speeed, and seek the enemy. At the
bottom, it shows the range to the PAP.
3. Press the joystick fire button or the mouse button to actually fire the
48. $8's are launched with compressed air. This "launch transient"
temporarily increases your loudness by 8 AV. This could be enough to reveal
your position. However, the 48 Swimout has no launch transient, as it just
"swims out" of the torpedo tube.
   A 48 trails a fine wire behind it with which to control th 48. As long as
the wire is intact, you can change it's course or PAP. W=wire good, X=wire
broken, and control lost. To control a running torpedo, hit the N key and
cycle thru all active torpedoes untill you get the desired 48. This shows
the Torpedo Control Secondary Display which gives the following info:
Torpedo Name A,B,C, or D. Only can have 4 48's running at a time.
Torpedo Status: either ---- for inactive (while it heads to it's PAP),
active, homing, or jammed. If a 48 gets jammed, it's good to take manual
control and steer around the decoy or noismaker or knuckle.
Time to Run: # of seconds the 48 will run before it runs out of fuel
Time to PAP: # of seconds to PAP
Speed: duh? in knts, w=wire good, X=wire broken
Heading: current course
/Search: whether the 48 will search left or right if the wire is broke or it
loses homing, and wheter the 48 is programmed to run above or below the
layer.
   Hitting the F2 key will bring up the primary display of Weapon Control,
which will bring up the secondary for the first 48(A first, or B if no A,
etc.....), then hit V button to cycle to desired 48. This gives you a
"torpedo's eye view". If the torpedo is not yet active, it's PAP will also
appear so you can redirect the PAP. If the 48 is active with good wire, use
the joystick to make the 48 go left or right. You should be able to hit
every target with some experiance under your belt. You can zoom in and out
in this display with the Z and X keys. If it hasn't reached PAP yet, you can
change depth (above or below the layer) and search pattern of the 48. I
haven't figured which keys do this, but the book says it's possible. Anyway,
you shouldn't need this, assuming your wire is good. If the wire isn't good,
you must have other things to worry about! Important: You can also manually
activate a 48 before it's PAP. Once again, I didn't find out how to do this
as of this writing, but this is deffinetly handy to use, so figure it out,
you will need it sooner or later. Also......I keep thinking of more stuff...
there is a way to "drop" the wire, useful to get rid of hopeless lost 48's,
making room for another 48 nto shoot. Remember, only 4 at a time. You can
use the PAP to "sneak" up on a target, not letting it go active until it's
right on the target.

TOMAHAWK AND HARPOON
   They both fly toward their PAP, and once there go active (which makes
them easier to shoot down). So you should use the same tactic of not letting
it go active until it close to the target, not giving the enemy any reaction
time. You must be at a depth of 300ft. or shallower to fire these. Harpoons
are launched from torpedo tubes only, while Tomahawks can be launched from
vertical launch tubes in the Los Angles class or torpedo tubes in all subs.
To fire a Harpoon or Tomahawk, it's like a 48. First, hit the 6 or 7 key,
select PAP point, then hit fire button on joystick(a mouse is not
recommended, since you can't control a 48 with the mouse). Once a missle is
fired, it's "on it's own", meaning you have no control whatsoever. Select a
PAP about 2/3 of the way to the ship, giving a wide arc for the missle to
find the ship (remember, the position on the display may not be exact, which
means you can overshoot or shoot to the side of a target, out of the 90
degree search arc.

SEA LANCE   MK 50
   This missle is designed to attack subs, but will work on ships, but has a
smaller warhead than a 48. Must not be deeper than 300ft. to launch. It
flies to PAP, drops it's Mk 50 torpedo in the water, which then goes in
circles looking for a sub (or ship). Very useful for keeping an enemy sub
busy while you sneak up on it or taking out a sub trying trying to escape.
Also useful for finding subs. Just drop a couple of Sea Lances where you
think there is an enemy sub and flush him out as the Mk 50 homes on him and
he goes to full power (very noisy) to avoid it. Fire it like everything
else. Use 5 key to select. Once fired, you can't control the Sea Lance/Mk50.

STINGER MISSLES
   Effectivee only against helos, it is fired from a mast above the water,
so you must be 55ft. or shallower to fire. Select 3 key to fire. Minimum
range is a few hundred yards and max range is ONLY 6000 yards (6 Kyds), so
don't shoot until the helo is within range, at which time it will probably
fire one of it's own torpedo's at you!

DEFENSE DISPLAY
   Hit the F3 key to get this display, useful for avoiding those anoying
torpedos of the enemy. This brings a display similiar to the tactical
display, but centered around your boat, showing a close up view of all
threats in the area. A warning is sounded whenever a new threat is
identified, which means CHECK THIS DISPLAY! If an enemy torpedo is homing on
you, you should go to this display IMMEDIATLY to check out the situation, or
you could ignore it and DIE. If an enemy torpedo is homing, you'll here it's
"pings" bounce off your hull.

Threat weapons is a secondary display that goes with the defense display,
showing range and bearing to the enemy's torpedos. This can be brought up by
hitting the M key, without bringing the defense display.

DEFENSE EQUIPMENT
   There are 3 techniques for "fooling" enemy torpedos: noisemakers, decoys,
and knuckles. Each relies on the limited sonar abilities of a torpedo: it's
sonar only faces forward in a 90 degree arc, 45 on either side of forward.

Noisemakers: hit the 1 key to release a noisemaker directly behind your
boat. A noisemaker jams a torpedoes sonar if (a) the noisemaker is fairly
close to the torpedo and (b) if the torpedo is facing toward the noisemaker.
Jammed torpedoes may head straight ahead or steer around it. But, once past
it, they usually circle and seek you once more. Noisemakers are small
devices. Subs carry nlarge numbers of them and can drop them fairly quickly.
However, if you  drop too many too quickly, you will temporarily be out
while the crew loads another one.

Knuckles: If you make a tight 15 degree turn at high speeds, your sub forms
a "knuckle" of turbulance in the water. The knuckle acts like a niosemaker,
but lasts for a far less time. Furthermore, a knuckle is only effective if
it is closer to the torpedo than your boat. If your boat is closer, the
torpedo will ignore the knuckle and go after you!

Decoys: Hit the 2 key to launch a decoy. A decoy travels straight at 20
knots. It sends out and reflects sound signals that immitate your sub.
Actually, it's good enough to fool a torpedo, but not a human sonar operator
on a sub or ship. A torpedo homes on the decoy if (a) the torpedo is closer
to the decoy than it is ti your sub and (b) the torpedo faces the decoy.
Decoys are launched from a special tube. Reloading and programming a new
decoy takes considerable time. If you attempt to launch another decoy too
fast, your crew tells you that a decoy is not ready (yet).

   The max acquisition range of a torpedo is about 2000 to 3000 yards,
depending on sonar conditions. The classic evasive actions are to increase
speed, drop a decoy or noisemaker and turn away, getting as far from the
torpedo as possible. But remember, the torpedo will go thru or around it and
try to relocate you.

RBU ROCKETS
   These extremely short range multiple rocket launchers are carried by most
Russian ships. Range varies from a few hundred to a few thousand yards,
depending on the class of ship. Generally, the bigger the ship, the longer
the range. If a ship knows your location, it can launch the RBU's at you,
which drop quickly thru the water and explode around you.

DAMAGE REPORTS
   Hit the B key for a list of systems that has been damaged or knocked out.

STRATEGIC TRANSIT
   In this mode, you manuver your sub across hundreds of miles of ocean,
seeking your objective. This mode is reached on in a campaign. Your home
port of Holy Loch is on the upper left portion of the isle of England. You
will need to return here to replenish ammo and repair damage. Use the
joystick button to transit at max power (and thereby cavitate, giving away
your position to anyone waiting to ambush you. But this is useful to use to
get somewhere quick). The map shows only the latest info on enemy forces,
which may be several hours old, and the enemy very far away.

   When you pause or contact the enemy, this brings a screen with different
choices:
   Review Mission Orders: exactly what it says
   Computer Log: lets you save the game
   Continue on Course: not availible if an enemy is encountered
   Battle Stations: starts the battle. Make sure you see the next one first.
   XO's Ship Staus Report: Subs don't cruise around with loaded weapons, you
should load tubes once a contact is found, or you can waste precious time
loading tubes while the enemy is shooting at you. To load a tube, just
select the weapon you wish in tube #1,then the weapon in the next tube,
etc......, or you can change weapons in a tube by clicking on that tube, and
then selecting a weapon for it.

Finishing your mission: an after combat report is automattically sent, and a
score given (ER). If you finished your mission, you will get new orders. If
you just tangled with a patrol, you will still continue with your mission.
Be warned though, don't use all your ammo on the patrol ships and subs. Save
some for the mission. It takes a long time to return to Holy Loch and
reload/repair damage, at which time, it may be too late to achieve your
objective.

A red and blue bar gauge is displayed between missions, as news reports
arrive before and after missions. If the gauge moves toward the WP, then the
Warsaw Pact is winning, if it moves toward NATO then NATO is doing better.
You play a campaign until the gauge is fully toward one side (the war won by
one side or the other).

PART 2   THE CAPTAIN'S MANUAL
   I have deleted a LONG explanation about NATO strategy given in the
manual. If you would like to see it, go buy, it has no effect on how you
play the game.
   I do not feel like typing the rest of the manual (dealing with tactics),
as this would take DAYS or WEEKS. It is a huge manual, 108 pages in all.
   I will give some general advice. When dealing with surface ships only, a
nice tactic to use is to make contact, develop a solution on one or two
ships, then rapidly fire a missle at each ship, surface, go active radar
long enough to target every ship that doesn't already have a misle going to
it, fire, turn off active radar, and GTFO. Of course, you should go to max
speed after firing the first missles, this gives you speed to out manuever
the incoming torpedoes. Be careful, there is usually a sub with the ships,
and this won't work on him.
   All in all, just remain quiet, sneak up on them, fire, and sneak away.
There are many diferent stratagies availible to you, just experiment with
different ways of attacking until you get the right way of attacking in
different situations. Don't discount the value of a 48, it's the best weapon
you have, if used correctly.

CONTROLS
   1=drop noisemaker
   2=launch decoy
   3=fire stinger
   4=fire Mk 48                    )
   5=fire Sea Lance                ) use Shift with these to load tubes
   6=fire Harpoon UGM              )
   7=fire Tomahawk                 )
   8=active sonar toggle
   9=active radar toggle
   0=rig for silent running

   F1=tactical display                  F6=compare sonar
   F2=weapon control display            F7=ship database
   F3=torpedo defense display           F8=sea conditions
   F4=periscope vidieo                  F9=depth control
   F5=acoustic signature               F10=course control

   + =increase power level
   - =decrease power level
   help=suggestions from computer
   . =right 5 rudder
   , =left  5 rudder
   / =straight and level

   z=zoom in
   x=zoom out                                  esc=unselect
   c=view contacts
   v=weapons loadout
   b=damage report
   n=torpedo control
   m=threat weapons

End.
