 Introduction
  ------------

	You've just arrived in the United States with your heart set on
becoming a millionaire.

	As your only skill is advanced race-driver training, you decide
to enter the Saturday Night Races tournament of illegal highway challenges.


	As chance would have it, you run into an old friend down on his
luck. In order to recoup some of his lost wealth, he sells you his prized
Lamborghini Diablo at a rock-bottom price. This uses up all but a few 
thousand dollars of your life savings.

	
	Despite your lack of funds, your sights are firmly set on reaching 
the first division of this competition. To do this, you must start by 
winning easy races in Division 4, until you have enough skill and money 
to enter more difficult ones.
	
	When you feel confident enough in your driving abilities, you may
try the Division Challenge. If you succeed, you will progress to the next 
diviison. Races become more challenging as you progress, but you can buy 
more sophisticated equipment and win greater prices.



  Loading
  -------

 	Switch off your Amiga, then remove external drives if you have 
512K. Then switch it on again and insert the first disk in DF0.
	
	When prompted, insert disk 2 in DF0.


  Save/Load Game
  --------------

	If you succeed in the Division Challenge, you may save your
game. You can restore the game later by selection of the CONTINUE SAVED
GAME option.


  Getting started
  ---------------

	You may begin the game by selecting the TRAINING or CHAMPIONSHIP
mode.

	The TRAINING mode enables you to practice driving your car and 
select several options. You may choose between regular tyres or super
tyres, 4 or 5 gear box, police or no police.

	By selecting the CHAMPIONSHIP mode, you begin competing in real
races with bets, prizes and tough opponents.

	You may choose between 3 racers: Joe, Sly or Val

	You may also restore a saved game.


  Controls
  --------

	F5 = Quit race
	F10 = Pause
	RETURN = Turn on boost
	N = Turn on night vision glasses


  Joystick controls
  -----------------

	You can control your Diablo with the joystick in 2 possible modes

	Mode 1: press the fire button to accelerate
	Mode 2: push the joystick up to accelerate

	You also have the choice between MANUAL or AUTOMATIC gears.


  Divisions
  ---------

	The division ranking screen displays the rank of all competitors
including yourself. The ranking order depends on the number of division
points each competitor has earned.

	You get 3 points each time you finish a race in first position, 
2 points if you finish second and 1 point if you finish third.

	You may scroll down the list and get information on each competitor.
	
	This includes the name of the competitor, the number of races 
completed, the number of races won, the number of Division points and the
vehicle class.

	In order to advance to the next division, you must win the 
Division Challenge which is represented on the map by a large star. You 
will need to buy a set of passes to attempt this challenge.


  Vehicle class
  -------------

	The vehicle class reflects the performance of the car. A car 
with few add-ons will be in class 1 or 2. A car with many add-ons will be
in class 4 or 5.


  The map of the United States
  ----------------------------

	There are 15 races available in each division. These races are
represented by red or yellow stars. A yellow star indicates that you 
have sufficient funds to enter the race. A red star indicates you cannot
pay the entry fee for that race and must win more money before you can
participate.

	The indicator on the right-hand side of the screen shows your 
current division. You will begin in division 4.

	When you move the pointer to a star, the characteristics of
the race appear:

	- the name of the race
	- the entrance fee
	- the price
	- the skill level of local participants
	- the probability of police on the course
	- the weather condition
	- the picture of professional drivers that compete in the race


  The Dashboard
  -------------

	From left to right and up to down:

	- Picture of you, a nearby cop or a professional driver
	- Boost: seconds remaining for the current boost (when in use)
	  and number of boost remaining
	- Damage: percentage of car damage
	- Score: current score
	- Distance: distance to the finish line
	- Radar detector
	- Super breaks	
	- Super tyres
	- Night vision glasses
	- Snow tyres
	- Radar Jammer


  The shop
  --------

	The shops contains new equipment you can add to your car to
improve its performance.

	- Division 4:	* Super tyres for dry and rainy weather
			* Radar detector to warn of police up ahead
			* Speed up 1. Top speed 288 km/h
			* 5-speed auto. Top speed 304 km/h
			* 5-speed manual. Top speed 304 km/h

	- Division 3: 	* Snow tyres for icy weather
			* Super brakes to slow down fast
			* Speed up 2. Top speed 320 km/h

	 
	- Division 2: 	* 6-speed auto. Top speed 336 km/h
			* 6-speed manual. Top speed 336 km/h
			* Roadster: better road-holding

	- Division 1:  	* Night vision glasses to see in the dark
			* Nitrous Oxide speed up. Top speed 352 km/h
			* Radar Jammer to foil road-side police

	- All divisions: Turbo boost: gives you an adrenalin-pumping
	speed for 10 seconds.


  The garage
  ----------

	After a turbulent race, your car will probably be damaged.

	If the damage exceeds 50%, your car's performance will be
reduced.

	Caution: having a collision when damage is at 100% will disable
your car.

	- Damage indicator: percentage of car damage.
	  (Cost to repair 10% of damage = 100$)
	- Money indicator: the amount of money available
	- Speed indicator: Top speed at current damage level
	- Speed loss indicator: percentage of speed loss

	
  The betting system
  ------------------

	If there are professional racers in the race you have chosen, 
you may bet on the outcome of the race.

	If you feel confident that you can finish the race in first position,
you can wage your bet with the other racers who willbet on their own
performance.

	Participants will take turn to either match the current bet (highest
bet so far) or stand (finish betting).

	The pot is the total amount of money bet by the players so far.

	The money indicator displays the amount of cash you have.

	The current bet is displayed in the top left corner of the betting
screen. Each player must match this amount in order to continue betting.

	After one turn, each player has 2 choices:

	- increase his stake: BET
	- decide he has reached his limit and quit: DONE

	You will not lose your money by exiting the betting process 
even if the other players have bet more than you. Howeevr, if you should
win, the other players only owe you an amount equal to your wager.

	If you are feeling confident in your driving abilities, and
you car's performance, you can 'raise' your opponents by increasing 
your wager by an amount greater than that of the current bet. This will 
force them to either match your bet or pull out.


  The police
  ----------

	Saturday Night races are not ordinary races.

	First of all, they are illegal, so you may encounter a wide range
of individuals, whether they are family types looking for some action, or
convicts eager to chase cops, every participant is motivated by the great
amounts of money involved.

	Since state regulations prohibit these races on public roads, 
police are sent to enforce the speed limits. The police can use 3 tactics:

	- Speed traps: the police looks for anyone going a margin over
	the speed limit (110 km/h). You may encounter police cars on the
	side of the road scanning passing traffic.
	- Highway patrol mode: the police drives down the highway,
	radar active, looking for offenders.
	Recommandation: buy a radar detector. Overtake slowly, while
	avoiding collisions with police vehicles.
	- Radar Cameras: these cameras are set up by the side of the 
	road. Triggering them will result in a fine, the amount
	depending on your speed at the time of the photo.

	
	If you get marked as an OFFENDER by the police, you have 2
options:

	- stop your car and pay a fine (you automatically quit the race)
	- try to finish the race despite the attempts of the police to
	destroy your car.

	If the policemanages to stop you, they will throw you in the 
lock-up and you will have to pay a heavy fine to get out.

	
	
  Hints
  -----

	Keep a close watch on your rivals' car class. You may want to
avoid racing against opponenets who are better equipped than you.

	You will frequently have to choose between buying speed-up 
options and other additions to your car. Before opting for extras such
as super brakes, snow tyres, consider the 'LOCAL RACER' skills in the
remaining available races. You may find yourself up against better 
opponents without the engine power to beat them.

	Beware of racers suddently betting large amounts. They may
well feel confident that their vehicles' performance is superior to
yours. You may have to resort to dirty tactics to beat them!!

	If your are feeling confident in your driving abilities, 
refraining from improving your vehicle's top speed may actually be
more profitable. If the other racers see your car as less of a threat,
they will bet more money on themselves winning. Snatching victory will be
very rewarding.

	If a rival has a higher top speed than you, there are several ways 
to tackle him. On a course with many sharp bends, you can wear down his 
lead by skillful cornering. If you can steer around highway traffic and have
fewer collisions than your opponent, victory is even more likely. If
circumstances get out of hand, you may have to resort to pushing your 
opponents off the road. This will damage their vehicle adn reduce their 
performance.

	If you come across police cars on highway patrol, pushing other 
racers cars into the patrol vehicles will make them instant OFFENDERS.

	If racers are slowing down in front of you to get through a radar
speed trap, driving into the back of their car may catapult them through
the radar at high speed.

---
Typed by BATHORY/CRACK INC