                            F/A-18  INTERCEPTOR
                  
                                Contents


Overview.......................................................1

Getting Started................................................1
   How to use the F/A-18 Flight Computer.......................2

Aircraft Reference.............................................3
    Joystick Control...........................................3
    Aircraft Controls..........................................3
    Simulation Controls........................................5
    View Controls..............................................5
    ECM (electronic countermeasures)...........................6
    Available Weapons..........................................6

Flight.........................................................6
    Demonstration Flight.......................................7
    Free Flight, no enemies...................................11
    Training, demo of maneuvers...............................11
    Training, practice maneuvers..............................12
    Qualification.............................................13
    Next Active Advanced Mission..............................13
    Selectable Missions.......................................15
    Your Current Flight Log...................................15

Tips from a Combat Veteran....................................16

Appendix A - Aircraft Specifications..........................18

Overview

F/A-18 Interceptor tests your air combat ability, as you fly a super-modern
jet fighter against destruction-seeking intruders. The action unfolds in a 
realistic flight environment; you skim over the bay, soar above the San 
Francisco peninsula, and perform maneuvers above the Pacific Ocean. You 
look out from the cockpit of a Navy F/A-18 Hornet or an Air Force F-16
Flying Falcon.

Read the Getting Started section to begin play, and study the Aircraft 
Reference section to become familiar with the joystick and keyboard
controls for F/A-18 Interceptor. The cockpit and controls are the same for
both the  F-16 and F/A-18. After you've seen the demo flight, and have
flown in free  flight, you practice the training maneuvers vital to
successful combat. You'll qualify for active duty, practice selected combat
missions, then fly in actual combat against the intruders.

Getting Started

You can play Interceptor on an Amiga 500, 1000 or 2000. Before you begin, 
write protect your disk then make a playing copy of the diskette. You can 
play Interceptor using the keyboard or joystick.

Note to new Amiga owners: F/A-18 Interceptor requires at least 512K bytes
of memory (if your computer has 512K, you should disconnect your external
drive to  receive improved sound.). Its recommended that you have a color
RGB monitor and one megabyte of memory to maximize sound capabilities, as
well as to view the Demonstration Flight in full. To get started:

1. Turn on your computer and monitor.

2. Plug your mouse in port one, and your joystick in port two.

3. Insert your playing copy. If you have an Amiga 1000, use Kickstart 1.2,
   then insert your playing copy when the onscreen request for the
   WorkBench appears.  Move the pointer to the Program Disk icon,
   double-click the mouse button, then double-click on the Interceptor icon
   in screen center.

4. The title screen and credits appears; when prompted, enter a callsign to 
   enlist in a full Tour of Duty. Then press Return (see Note below).

5. When the Mission Selection screen appears, press the number of the
   option you want to begin play.

                                1

Note: When you write-enable your disk, "R" for Rookie appears as the
current callsign. The Rookie is a pilot who has successfully completed the
first three F/A-18 Interceptor missions; using the "R" callsign thus lets
you select from a wider variety of missions right away. If you wish to use
your own callsign (thus permanently erasing the Rookie) you must select
"8" ("your current flight log"), then reset the log by pressing SHIFT-2.
Now press 1 to update the log to disk. Am message appears requesting you to
enter your own callsign. You may opt not to enlist for a Tour of Duty.
However you must still pass Qualification in order to fly combat missions.

How to Use the F/A-18 Flight Computer

To play F/A-18 Interceptor, you need to enter a security countercode after
you select any of the Flight options (see "Flight").  At the onscreen
prompt, you'll use your F/A-18 Flight Computer to line up the 4 letters
and/or numbers, then type in the appropriate code visible in the window
above the last letter or number.

1.  The first letter or number is for the innermost (smallest) dial on the
    wheel.  Find that character.

2.  Find the second character on the middle wheel, and line it up directly
    over the first.

3.  Find the third number on the large, outer wheel.  Line it up with the
    first two characters.

4.  Now look on the innermost wheel to find the fourth character (a window
    is placed directly above each).  Type in the numerical code visible in
    the window above the 4th character, and press Return.

5.  You should receive confirmation to proceed with the mission.  If you
    enter the incorrect countercode, you are given 2 more chances to clear
    security before the program asks you to reboot.

                                2

Note: Use care when selecting characters on the Flight Computer; and "8"
can look like a "B" or an "0" can resemble a "D".  To practice using the
F/A-18 Interceptor Flight Computer, find the number for the combination
9E5F.  You're on the right tack if the answer you come up with is 057247. 
See Flight Computer Illustration, page 2.

Aircraft Reference  

When you take to the air, you fly one of two intercept aircraft - either
the General Dynamics F-16 Fighting Falcon orr the F/A-18 Hornet. In your 
capable hands, the Falcon and the Hornet are both weapon and shield.
Please refer to Appendix A - Aircraft Specifications, for more information
on both aircraft.

Joystick Control

You control your plane in flight by using the keyboard, or a joystick. Take
control of the joystick when your plane is taxiing off down the runway on
takeoff. Once you have achieved takeoff of about 200 knots, pull back on 
the joystick and take to the air. In flight, move your joystick in the 
direction you want your aircraft to fly. The joystick's fire button fires 
the selected weapon against the selected target, and triggers the 
instructor's next maneuver in Training Missions.

Aircraft Controls

Familiarity of the cockpit controls of both the F-16 Falcon and the F/A-18
Hornet is important to the F/A-18 Interceptor pilot. Prominent features of
the cockpit are the HUD (heads up display) system, the radar and weapons
systems, and the fuel, altitude and airspeed indicators. The HUD, which 
appears on the canopy above the control panel, includes a target
designator, missile-aiming reticle, gun-boresight line, weapon-select
indicator, target-in-range, target lock-on, and a G-meter (load
measurement). Refer to the  HUD illustrations on page 10 to familiarize
yourself with these features. 

Note: Refer to the illustrations of the cockpit control panel and the 
keyboard when reviewing this list of controls:

  F1 - F10            Thrust. Control throttle in 10% increments.
                      Note: Pressing F1 twice shuts down the engine if you 
                      are at settings above 10%. Pressing F10 twice turns
                      on the afterburner if you are at 100% throttle.

   = key              Thrust. Increases throttle by one step. 

   - key              Thrust. Decreases throttle by one step.

                                 3 

 BACKSPACE            Brakes. Puts on speed brakes or ground brakes 
                      (depending on your location). The "Brakes" indicator
                      on left side of control panel lights up when you put
                      the brakes on.

      ,               Rudder control. Left Rudder, turns left ("yaws").

      .               Rudder control. Right Rudder, turns right ("yaws").

 Cursor Keys          Aircraft movement. The UP arrow pitches the nose down,
                      the down arrow pitches the nose UP, the LEFT arrow 
                      rolls it left, and the RIGHT arrow rolls it right.

      G               Gear. Raises or lowers the landing gear.

      A               Arrestor hook. Extends arrestor hook on F/A-18 for
                      carrier landings.

      H               HUD. Turns HUD display on/off. All displays except
		      that for a selected weapon disappear when you
		      deactivate the HUD, and return when you re-select
                      it.

      J               ECM jammer. Turns ECM (electronic countermeasures)
                      on/off. "ECM" on the right side panel lights up when
                      you select it.

      C               Chaff. Dispenses rapid-bloom chaff to jam an enemy
                      aircraft's surveillance system, as well as radar-
                      homing missiles.

      F               Flare. Dispenses an infra-red flare to draw IR-guided
                      missile away from your aircraft.

      M               Map. Displays map of airspace and your location on
                      the HSI (horizontal situation indicator).

      R               Range. Controls radar resolution (2, 10 or 40 miles).

      T               Target Select. Selects radar contact as a target.
                      Toggle through available targets by pressing T 
                      repeatedly.

   RETURN             Weapon Select. Press repeatedly to toggle through 
                      available weapons. The weapon selected is highlighted
                      by a red bar in the weapons window in control panel.

 SPACE BAR            Fires weapon. Fires active weapon at selected target.

  Shift-F             Dispenses rescue pods. Releases rescue pods in some
                      missions.

  Shift-E             Eject. Press to eject from a doomed aircraft.

                                4

Simulation Controls

       P              Pause on/ off.

    ESCAPE            Reset Mission. Returns you to the start of the
                      current mission.

  Shift-Escape        Exit Current Mission. Returns you to Mission Select
                      screen.

View Controls

  Keypad Enter        Switches viewing mode from first-person perspective
                      inside cockpit to third-person perspective outside
                      cockpit; press ENTER again to re-enter cockpit. Press
                      ENTER to skip through the "zoom down" that follows
                      your selection of any of the scenarios; you'll go
                      straight to the cockpit. 

   Shift-Enter        Takes you to the control tower nearest your starting
                      location.

     [ ]              Zoom. Left bracket zooms out, right zooms in.

The following keys on the numeric keypad function when your view is from 
inside the plane:

      4               Moves your head to the left.

      6               Moves your head to the right. 

      5               Locks your head in present position.

      2               Turns your head around for backward view (checks 
                      your "6").

      1               Straight-down view.

      7               Straight-up view.

      8               Returns you to forward view (shortcut).

Note: The program automatically returns you to the forward view after 4 
seconds. To prevent this, press 5 (see above) to remain in the pilot 
viewing mode that you have selected.

When you press Enter, the view mode numeric keypad remains inoperative.
However, the view each number gives is the position of the viewer outside
the  aircraft. Scroll through the numbers on the keypad to view your plane
in flight from the different possible angles, then press ENTER again to
return  to the cockpit view.  Note: In addition to the 7 keys mentioned
above, the 3 and 9 keys are operative when you're viewing the plane from the
outside  views (the 5 key now shows you a view of the aircraft from
directly above). In addition, the decimal point gives you a
beneath-the-plane view.

                                5

ECM (Electronic CounterMeasures)

You can use ECM to foul an enemy's radar, avoid detection, and deflect an 
incoming attack. ECM has both an active form, like jamming the enemy's
radar electronically, and a passive form, like dropping chaff, composed of
small  lengths of wire or foil. Chaff acts as a signal decoy, confusing the
tracker's  radar. --- even causing missile guidance on the wrong target.
When a pilot  faces an impending attack, he will often employ ECM and
perform an evasive maneuver simultaneously.

Both the F-16 and F/A-18 Hornet are fitted with standard ECM pods. There is
an ECM indicator on the right side of your cockpit panel. It is highlighted
in yellow when your ECM pod is active. Using ECM reduces the range and
effectiveness of enemy missiles, but also provides a beacon to your current
position.

Available Weapons

Each aircraft boasts medium and short range missiles, plus a short range
cannon. The AIM-120A AMRAAM is the medium range missile on each aircraft;
it is a highly accurate "fire and forget" weapon. The AMRAAM has an
effective range of over 30 miles; its guidance system keeps it on a
strapdown, inertial course until it approaches the target. Then the AMRAAM
activates a small active seeker in its nose as it homes in on the target.

The short range missile available to the F/A-18 Interceptor pilot is the 
AIM-9L Sidewinder anti-aircraft missile. The Sidewinder has a range of 11 
miles, and reaches a speed of Mach 3. A pilot maneuvering at 6g can still 
release a Sidewinder toward its target; the Sidewinder can be released when
the attack craft is as close as 1000 feet. The AIM-9 performs best when it
is launched from astern at a glowing afterburner, but its "all-angle"
capability allows launch at head-on targets as well.

The close-range cannon is the GE-M61, a 20mm cannon that fires 570 rounds
at 6000 rounds per minute. In the modern era, a close range gun is most
valuable in the midst of a close-quarters dogfight.

Flight

Now that you've completed your brief check-out of each aircraft, you're
ready to solo. Your departure point is always the Mission Selection screen,
where you choose the flight option that's right for you. Select
Demonstration Flight and become familiar with the basic mechanics of
flight from a passenger's point of view -- and some of the key landmarks
of the San Francisco bay area.

                                     6

Select Free Flight a few times if you are a beginner to get the feel of the
airplanes, then select Training: Demo of Maneuvers, to get acquainted with
the basic combat maneuvers.. To practice the maneuvers behind an expert
instructor flying an F-16, select Training: Practice Maneuvers, and go 
through the maneuvers (descriptions of each are found below). Select
Qualification to qualify for combat; now go on to the Next Active Advanced
Mission, where you are dispatched on active status to face one of six 
missions. As you complete them, you can relive past glories by selecting a
previously completed mission in Selectable Missions.

Demonstration Flight

After you select the Demonstration Flight (enter 1 at Mission Selection 
screen), you zoom in to the carrier Enterprise (CVN 65). You watch as the 
Navy's workhorse takes off from the carrier deck, with its afterburners
alight. When you select the demo, you cannot take control of the plane. The
demo gives you a brief taste of flight, then lands at Alameda Naval Air
Station. The demo repeats; to exit to Mission Selection, press
Shift-Escape. When you're ready to take control of the aircraft, go on to
Free Flight.

                                7

Free Flight, No Enemy Confrontation

Free Flight, No Enemy Confrontation is the perfect opportunity to become
familiar with the skills of flight that build a combat pilot's base of
experience. Once you select Free Flight, select your starting location 
choosing between San Francisco International (1), Alameda Naval Air Station
(2), Moffett Field Naval Air Station (3), and an aircraft carrier  off the
coast of San Francisco (4). You choose to fly either the F/A-18 Hornet or
the F-16 Falcon (if you select the carrier as your starting location you are
assigned an F/A-18 automatically). Watch as the view zooms in to your 
aircraft in takeoff position, then check your control panel and verify that
all systems are "go". To take off, just press F10 to increase your throttle
to "military power". Once your airspeed reaches 200 knots, pull back on the
joystick to lift off.

In Free Flight, you face no enemies, and have no aerial targets to sight
on; however, you can explore the possibilities of flight, practice
take-offs, and familiarize yourself with the control systems and flight
characteristics of your aircraft. Free Flight also lets you in on the
sounds of flight -- the roar of take-off as you accelerate, the whine of
your landing gear as it is raised, the kick of supersonic flight as you
light the afterburners.

Note: If you should crash in any of the F/A-18 Interceptor missions, you
are  returned to your starting position, in position to take off again.
However, if you are enrolled in a Tour of Duty, crashing means you won't
gain mission completion credit in your flight log (see Your Current Flight
Log, below).

Training: Demo of Maneuvers

In Training: Demo of Maneuvers, you ride as a passenger, as a flight 
instructor performs a sequence of basic flight maneuvers. After you select
the Training Demo from the Mission Selection screen,  you'll be airborne, 
ready to watch the first of seven maneuvers. The pilot flies at 80% thrust
throughout the demo; he may climb to altitudes above 14000 feet, and fly as
fast as 650 knots.

As a passenger, you have no control of the aircraft. However, to skip any 
maneuver,, or to interrupt a maneuver in progress and select the next in
sequence, press RETURN. Once the sequence of maneuvers is complete (see 
Training: Practice Maneuvers for a complete list of the maneuvers), it will
 repeat automatically until you exit the demo. Take advantage of the
training demo; it gives you a leg up when you fly the maneuvers yourself in
Training: Practice Maneuvers. To exit and return to the Mission Selection
screen,  press Shift-Escape.

                                11 

Training: Practice Maneuvers

In this scenario, the maneuvers are the same as in Training: Demo of 
Maneuvers, and you perform them in the same order. Once you select this
scenario, you begin lined up on the runway, behind the instructor's plane. 
He'll wait for you to begin his take-off. Accelerate to 80% thrust; when 
you reach 200 knots, take to the air. Try to stay in sight of the
instructor as he climbs into position for the first maneuver. Follow the
instructor,  and perform each maneuver in sequence as he does. If you lose
the instructor once he starts to perform his maneuvers, you can reposition
yourself behind his aircraft by pressing Return (once you're repositioned,
make sure  you stay within range of the instructor without overtaking him).

Use your experience in Training: Demo of Maneuvers, and follow the
instructor as he loops or rolls, breaks or flies inverted. If a particular
maneuver is too difficult, you can always trigger the next maneuver
automatically. Make sure you're lined up in sight of the lead plane, then
press the joystick  button when the instruction to trigger appears at the
bottom of the cockpit panel. The instructor executes the maneuver, and you
try to keep up. To skip a maneuver, press Return; to leave a smoke trail
behind the instructor's  plane, press S. Just as in Training: Demo of
Maneuvers, the maneuvers repeat automatically until you exit. Press
Shift-Escape to return to Mission  Selection.

What follows are detailed descriptions of the 7 maneuvers you practice in
Training:

The Aileron Roll: To perform an aileron roll, push the stick to one side.
The plane rolls around, and its nose describes a circle on the horizon. In
combat, use rolls to position yourself to "lift" through climbs, dives, and
turns.

The Break Turn: Use the Break Turn when the attacker is first seen
approach- ing when you're in the enemy's "cone of vulnerability". To
execute, break hard in the direction of the attack, fly with your wing
pointed at the ground , then right yourself. You want to generate
"angle-off" and ruin the  aggressor's angle, making him overshoot.

The Inside Loop: In an inside loop, you pull up quickly and go all the way 
over. Your head faces the center of the loop, while you pull positive G's.
It's a bit like an aerial backward somersault. Perform an inside loop to 
trade positions with an opponent who's near.

Split-S: In the Split-S maneuver, the defender rolls inverted and then
dives away vertically, pulling out in the opposite direction. from his
opponent.  The idea is to force the attacker to overshoot, positioning
yourself for a  reversal, while destroying the opponent's angle of attack.

                                12

Vertical Half-Loop: In this maneuver, you pull back on the stick, get to
the top of the loop, then fly horizontally in inverted flight. Now roll
your  plane upright. Also known as an Immelman, the half-loop allows you to
gain  altitude and reverse directions.

Barrel Roll: In the Barrel Roll, the defender first breaks, then rolls in
the opposite direction to the break. The barrel roll involves loss of much 
speed; it works best when the attacker is in a high angle-off, high
overtake situation. If you execute this maneuver properly, the opponent
should overfly you.

Inverted Flight: Inverted Flight is a basic part of several aerial 
maneuvers; to accomplish it, pull the stick back until you're upside-down,
maintain your direction, then fly inverted. Try to maintain level flight.

Qualification

When you've completed your training and orientation, choose Qualification
at the Mission Selection screen. You quickly hear the roar of the F/A-18's
powerful engines, and look out from the Hornet's cockpit to the Enterprise'
deck and the ocean beyond. Read the onscreen instructions for
qualification.

In Qualification, you must take off successfully from the carrier's deck, 
fly around, then return to land safely on the carrier deck. You should be
prepared for potential opponents in the Pacific skies; your enemies are 
indifferent to your mission, and will harass you with impunity. Deal with 
bogeys if they appear, then find your way back to the carrier. Get a
bearing  on the ship, reduce your speed to 175 knots, drop your altitude,
and bear  down on the flight deck. Head in toward the side where the hooks
are closest to your aircraft. Put on your brakes, lower your landing gear,
then hit the  wires to come to a full halt. 

Once you pass Qualification, you are eligible for active duty (a message 
appears onscreen confirming your advancement to active combat status).

Escape repositions you on the carrier deck; Shift-Escape sends you back to 
Mission Selection.

Next Active Advanced Mission

When you select Next Active Advanced Mission, you take on the challenge of 
several combat missions against the intruders. Each mission has a specific 
task for you to execute (see descriptions of the 4 missions below). To 
succeed in Next Active Advanced Mission, you must be versed in all phases
of  combat -- flying the aircraft, detecting the enemy while avoiding
detection  through electronic and visual measures, closing in for the
attack, selecting and readying your weapons systems, attempting kills, and
then maneuvering to disengage from combat.

                                13

Note: The warning lights in the upper-right corner of the cockpit panel
flash these different colors when the following situations arise:

1.  A friendly plane in the area is green.

2.  An enemy in the area is red.

3.  A stall warning is red.

4.  An RH missile fired at you is white.

5.  An IR missile fired at you is white.

In addition, an explanatory message appears at the bottom of the control 
panel for each "event".

Visual Confirmation

In this first combat mission, you take off from San Francisco International
in an F-16 Falcon or and F/A-18 Hornet. Your assignment is to find and 
identify an aircraft (it's somewhere out there!), then return to SFO 
unscathed. The aircraft which you must identify may be either a friend or a
 foe. In Visual Confirmation, you face some danger of attack,. All your 
weapons systems are operational, so arm your weapons if you spot a bogey. 
Shoot only if fired at. If you can avoid a melee, you're better off. An 
onscreen message lets you know when you've completed your assignment. Head
for home, and put your aircraft down in one piece.

Emergency Defense Operation

When you complete Visual Confirmation, you're ready to fly Emergency
Defense Operation. You fly an F/A-18 Hornet from the deck of the carrier
anchored off the coast of San Francisco. Your mission is clear and
compelling -- "We have hostile aircraft in your sector. Air Force One is
currently on course  to SFO." That means the Commander-in-Chief is unaware
of the attempt to  assassinate him and fatally compromise U.S. security. In
this protective  situation, you must intercept and occupy the aggressor
planes, allowing the Air Force One pilot time to land safely at SFO (an
onscreen message informs you when the President's plane is down). Scramble
to the scene of the attack,  deflect or destroy the enemy, and return to
the carrier to land. Emergency Defense Operation is a combat pilot's
challenge of the highest magnitude -- including the ability to gain attack
position, outmaneuver your opponent, and outgun him if necessary.

Intercept Stolen Aircraft

Two F-16 Falcons from the U.S. Air Force have defected to the enemy side, 
aided in their escape by a couple of unidentified escorts. Your assignment
is to take off from the carrier, find the would-be defectors and their co-
conspirators, and deal with the enemy planes in the most convincing manner
possible. Fly in front of the would-be Benedict Arnolds to inform them that
the game is up. If they agree to return home, escort them there; if they 
disobey your signal to surrender, prevent their getaway at all costs.

                                14

Search and Rescue Operation

In Search and rescue Operation you try to find and rescue a downed friendly
pilot. Take off from the carrier Enterprise, and find the lost pilot, using
radar and your pilot's keen eyes. Again, enemy aircraft seek to prevent the
execution of your mission. After you locate the downed flier, you should
deploy the rescue pod within his range. A message informs you if the drop
was successful. Once the downed pilot is safe, your job is done -- return
to the carrier and safety.

Selectable Missions

Choose Selectable Missions after flying Next Advanced Mission. You'll be
able to select any of the missions that you completed in Next Active
Advanced Mission, plus one more. Each time you complete a mission in
Selectable  Missions, you are given a new scenario to select from the
Selectable Missions  screen. As you take to the air in each mission, all of
your instrumentation and weapons are operational; your aircraft is standing
by, so strap on your G-suit and climb aboard. Fly Selectable Missions to
practice the combat scenarios before returning to combat on active status.

Note: There are other selectable missions, which we won't describe here.
Once you have successfully completed an active mission, you may repeat it.
The second time around, though, you may have to contend with a tougher 
array of opposing pilots.

Your Current Flight Log

Your Current Flight Log lets you view your progress when you enroll in a 
Tour of Duty (you must write-enable your disk before enrolling). Select
Your Current Flight Log from the Mission Selection screen; you view a 
summary that includes the following:

1. Total mission started.

2. Missions successfully completed.

3. Amount of weapons fired and hits achieved.

4. Accumulated flight time.

5. Total number of crashes - doesn't include ejections.

6. Hits suffered from enemy missiles.

After each mission that you complete, your flight log is updated. To save
the  update onto your disk, press "1". Any missions you've completed count
toward  your credit; for example, if you've completed the first two
Selectable Missions, you can begin the third whenever you like. As you fly
more missions,  you will continue to update the flight log, keeping track
of your progress throughout play.

                                15

If you wish to reset the Flight Log and keep statistics from scratch, press
Shift-2. This erases the current log and sets statistics at 0. When you
reset  the Flight Log, you erase credit for any missions completed.
Remember to enter a new callsign.

Note: You'll need to requalify to fly missions.

To exit from the Flight Log back to Mission Selection, press Esc.

Tips from a Combat Veteran

Learning the workings of today's modern fighters is a key element of the
pilot's art. He need to know where all the controls are by touch, but more
than that, he needs to approach his aircraft as the wonder of aerospace
technology that it is. Your F/A-18 Interceptor and F-16 Falcon aircraft are
the best that the Navy and the Air Force can put in the air. They are the
results of thousands of hours of design and engineering, and are kept in
tip-top shape by careful ground crew maintenance. In your hands, the F-16
and the F/A-18 turn into precise instruments, and the trained pilot emerges
as a surgeon of the sky.

The art of combat flying is a combination of skills. Experience is any
pilots best teacher -- there's no substitute for long hours spent
perfecting basic flight maneuvers., the principles of attack, and
successful disengagement. The qualities that a top gun must have are
courage, determination, acceptance of danger, and a measured faith in his
ability to get the job done without fanfare. A flashy show-off is
guaranteed one of two outcomes -- a quick trip to the beyond, or lots of
practice separating himself from the lines of his flight chute after a
dizzying fall to earth.

A solid pilot builds flight skills in stages, taking on the right
challenges  at the right time -- taking it smart, not easy. That means
graduated training,  moving from Free Flight to Training, on to
Qualification, then Selectable Missions, and finally, Next Active Advanced
Mission. He applies basic principles like achieving surprise, detection,
gaining a superior attack position, closing, and using weapons in an
attack. A smart pilot builds a  good variety of maneuvers into his
repertoire, practicing each until it is second nature. Careful preparation
helps instill a calm, winning attitude in the most heated of aerial
encounters.

Welcome to the combat pilots' fraternity!

                                16

				17

Appendix A - Aircraft Specifications

The General Dynamics F-16 Fighting Falcon is a state-of-the-art,
lightweight, multirole air-combat fighter with an advanced ground attack
capability.  The F-16 is a single-seat aircraft with a single vertical
tail, mid-mounted tailerons and wings, leading-edge flaps, and
trailing-edge flaperons.

Engine: The F-16 has a single Pratt and Whitney F100-PW-100 engine with
23,830 lbs of thrust.

Dimensions: The aircraft has a wing span of 31 feet and a length of 47
feet.

Weight: 16,794 lbs when empty, and 37,500 lbs at maximum take-off weight.

Navigation: The Fighting Falcon's primary navigation system is a
Singer-Kearfott SKN-2400 INS with a Standard ALQ-131 ECM Pod.

Radar: Its radar capability includes a I/J-band pulse-doppler set, with
range scales of 2, 10, or 40 miles.  The Falcon's downlook capability
allows detection of fighter targets over 30 miles - including treetop
targets.

Ordnance: The F-16 can carry a weapon load of up to 20,450 lbs.  With 2
short-range Sidewinder heat-seeking missiles boasting an 11 mile range, 4
medium-range AMRAAM missiles with a 30 mile range, and an
internally-mounted GE M61 A-1 gun capable of firing 500 rounds of
armor-piercing projectiles at a maximum range of 500 meters, the F-16 is a
sleek and deadly weapon of defense.

Speed: The Falcon can attain a maximum velocity of about 1350 mph (Mach
2.05) at 40,000 feet; at sea level, the F-16 reaches a speed of around 915
mph (Mach 1.2).

Combat Radius: The Falcon's tactical combat radius with maximum internal
fuel is 340 miles.

Ferry Range: The fighter's ferry range is 2415 miles.

The combat pilot is assured a quiet ride and an exceptional all-around
cockpit view when he takes the Falcon out for a ride.  Control inputs are
force-sensing sidestick controller and pedal, both positioned for maximum
effectiveness.  The speed and range of the F-16 Falcon guarantees top
performance in several areas of combat.

				18

The carrier-based McDonnell Doublas/northrop F/A-18 Hornet is a U.S. Navy
workhorse, performing both fighter and attack functions.  Designed as a
replacement for the timeless FA Phantom II and the versatile A7 Corsair,
the F/A-18 has filled a critical strategic need in the Navy's combat
arsenal.

Engine: The Hornet is driven by two GE F404-6E 400 engines, each of which
generates 16,000 lbs of thrust.

Dimensions: It spans 37 1/2 ft. without missiles, and over 40 feet with
missiles.

Weight: The F/A-18 weighs 23,060 lbs empty, and 36,710 lbs when loaded for
a fighter mission.

Radar: Search and define, lock-on and multiple-pass capabilities.

Ordnance: There are 9 external weapon stations on the aircraft, plus 4
medium-range AMRAAM missiles, 2 short-range Sidewinder missiles, and a GE
M61 cannon (20mm) that fires up to 570 rounds.

Speed: The F/A-18 can reach a maximum speed (clean) of 1190 mph, or Mach
1.8, and will sustain a combat maneuver ceiling of over 40,000 feet.

Combat Radius: The Hornet's air-to-air combat radius (with no external
fuel) extends to 461 miles.

				19
 
============================================================================
         DOCS PROVIDED BY  -+*+-THE SOUTHERN STAR-+*+- for M.A.A.D.                                                               
============================================================================
