                        RETURN TO ATLANTIS

Typed in by MAAD/SEWER RAT of SEWER SOFTWARE. Edited by PARASITE


As you know, the war has been escalating. The historical wing of the
capitol's library was destroyed last night by a bomb explosion. From
the destruction we salvaged only a few of the priceless historical
books and statues. We also recovered the following hand written page,
which was unscathed by fire or water. How this undamaged item got in
among the rubble remains a mystery.

There came a time in the history of the earth when the ocean offered
the last frontier. Man had exhausted the resources of the land - the
only medium he had ever learned to dominate. The hills were mined dry,
the forests were burned bare, and the plains were ploughed raw. Even
the timeless deserts bore scars of industrial invasion. Through the
centuries, the cancer of progress continued unimpeded until the land
could endure no more.

When the earth was finally culled clean, mankinds hopes turned to the
seas. With visions of a new way of life, free from the legacy of
exploitation, he adapted to the waters. The awesome power of the
environment tempered man's greed in the beginning. From this spurious
veneration, he vowed to ration precious resources and preserve the
ocean's many treasures.

But as the sea began to lose its intimidating mystery, the majority of
those who broke the vow grew. Soon, they became a majority with the
strength to propagate their plans worldwide. The plans stated that
under their guidance, harvesting of the seas fruits would proceed "with
a pioneer spirit" and not be hindered by "conservationist paranoia."
They rallied behind the philosophical masthead of "Maximum Utilities
Management," one which only thinly disguised the reckless consumption
that had gone on throughout the previous centuries.

Those who saw the sea as a viable alternative to land-based life did
not accept the return to wanton exploitation. Their desire to preserve
this new way of life awakened the tale of Atlantis, the island kingdon
of the Atlantic. They recalled a great race of people whose lives, both
on land and in water, were not separated by any shores. And they vowed
to rebuild this great society even if it meant a final confrontation
between land and sea forces.

Now, the expected battle has finally begun after centuries of antagon-
ism. In an effort to proceed covertly to shield the public from the
reality of the severed relationship, both forces have adopted sabotage
as their favored method of attack. To keep the war from escalating into
overt combat, The Foundation, a secret worldwide organization committed
to unifying the forces of earth, has recruited the best gradualte form
the Academy. What that recruit can do for the future of humanity is yet
to be seen....

Your Mission
In Return to Atlantis, you are an agent of The Foundation. Your pur-
pose: to help mantain the balance between the forces of sea and land;
to protect the creatures that swim in the ocean waters; and to oppose
all those who seek to exploit the sea's wonders at the expense of the
ecosystem. Who knows? You may even discover the secret of lost Atlantis
along the way.

From The Foundation's base on Isla Perdida, you receive your assign-
ments from headquarters through a holographic projection from The Foun-
dation's head agent. Headquarters gives you details of the mission and
points out any dangers you need to be aware of.

Once your briefing is complete, you go to the Sea Thief Cafe on Isla
Perdida. This is the hot spot for buying and trading secrets. Here, you
question the mysterious informatns for leads tha can help you with your
mission. After you've collect your leads, a map of the world appears
and a red line traces the flight pattern of your ship, the Viceroy.
When you reach your destination, the Viceroy lands and your mission
begins. During your mission, ART, your onboard computer, keeps you
posted on your status. If you fulfill your objective, ART gives you
information about the mission just completed and about your next
mission. If you don't succeed, ART outlines the efforts of your
failure.

CAUTION: Never write-enable your Atlantis I or Atlantis II disks. Also,
never remove a disk while it's in use or the information on it will be
obliterated. Even a top graduate of the Academy like you won't be able
to recover the data with all the tools in the world.

Mouse, Joystick, and Keyboard Tips
Whenever you're instructed to click on something, use the left mouse
button unless you're specifically told to use the right mouse button.
If you're using a joystick, plug it into port 2. The button on the
joystick acts the same as the left button on a mouse. Since there is no
right button on the joystick, use the alternative that you're given.

After you dive, you'll see the Underwater Actions Menu at the bottom of
the screen. To get to it, double click the button, or press M, and an
arrow which you can select menu options with appears. NOTE: Don't use
M if you're viewing RUF through the camera or the selection arrow will
disappear. Should this happen, press X to get out of the Underwater
Actions Menu.

Press <RETURN> or cllick the right mouse button to stop swimming. Even
though you're not swimming, time will still elapse. If you want to
pause (and not use up time), press <ESC>.

At almost any time during the game, you can press <HELP> for onscreen
help.

Creating a Character
After you load Return to Atlantis, you're asked if you've created your
ID disk yet. If this is the first time you've played, click NO. If
you've previously created an ID disk, click YES. You'll be asked to
enter a name, and if you want to rerun an adventure you've previously
played.

The first step in creating your identity is to choose a name. Click
Name and type in a name up to 17 letters long. Next, click Age and
enter an age. Then click Male or Female. Finally, click Done and you'll
move on to the diver profile.

The rest of your identity as an agent of The Foundation rests on the
seven attributes that you now see on the screen.

Psychology   The informant's behavior towards you. Being strong in
             psycology makes it easier to get information because the
             informant will be more receptive. You can develop this
             strength by studying the informant's behavior and using
             the right methods to question him or her.
Athetics     Your underwater manueveralbility and your ability to swim
             against the current.
Telepathy    The maximum range at which you can communicate with RUF,
             your underwater robot.
Awareness    Your self-awareness. The greater your awareness, the
             slower you'll use up your oxygen supply, and the less
             you'll have to interrupt your mission to surface for air.
Programming  Your ability to program RUF to search given coordinates.
             Strong programming skills let you program RUF to search a
             larger area for each minute invested.
Weapons      How well you load and fire your weapon. This is critical
             when you're confronted with enemies.
Health       Your overall well-being. All agents begin with 100%
             Health, but that can change according to what you do and
             how you perform your tasks. Health affects all your attri-
             butes. For instance, if you're at 50% health, all your
             attribute values are reduced by 50%; you will use air
             twice as fast, your range with RUF is cut in half, and so
             on. When it's down to zero, it's time for you to change
             your identity and start your career over again.

Although you worked hard at the Academy to sharpen all your attributes,
these values are determined mostly by fate. Your control is limited to
one attribute, which you can increase five points by clicking on it
with the arrow. You're asked, "Is this character ok?" If you don't like
the values, click No and try again. Once you're satisfied, click Yes
and you'll be asked for an initialized disk. This disk will become your
ID disk, which you'll put into df0: (the internal drive) to store your
new character on.

Questioning the Informants
After headquarters explains your assignment, a screen with the silhou-
ettes of each informant appears. (If you don't want to listen to the
entire speech for headquarters, hold down the button to fast forward
through it.) Click on the box of the informant you'd like to question
or click Continue if yo'd rather go straight to the mission. To learn a
little about the informant you're dealing with, press <HELP> and a
short profile appears. To return to the informant, click Done.

You have several methods of questioning. Because each informant has his
or her own personality, a particular method may work for one informant
but not for another. Getting useful information is a tricky process
that requires a savvy of who you're dealing with. Remember that
informants have their limits. Push them too far - by threatening them
too much or by bribing them excessively - and you may find that they
won't give you any information. If this happens, it's up to you to
reverse their bad opinion of you. All of the informants have critical
information so it's wise to keep on their good sides.

Greet the informant by clicking Hello. After he or she responds, press
the right button to see the methods of questioning. Choose any method
to find out what the informant knows. When you're done, click the right
button (If you have a joystick, move the arrow up as far as possible
and click). When you're done, click Goodbye and you'll return to the
screen of silhouettes where you can select another informant or proceed
with your mission

Hello        Click this to begin questioning.
Bribe        You're allowed to bribe the informants five times per
             assignment. Bribing is useful as long as it doesn't
             insult your informant. Each time you use this method, the
             number of bribes decreases by one. When it's down to zero,
                 you'll have to get your information some other way.
Plead        If you think your informants will be insulted by a bribe,
             then the humble approach is useful. Be advised that
             pleading after threatening may breed contempt.

Threaten     Some informants can be intimidated, but not at all times.
             You can make threats if the informant seems evasive when
             you plead your case, but occasionally this backfires. You
             may get laughed at if the informant feels secure in his or
             position, doesn't know anything, or becomes irritated. If
             go too far, he or she may even leave.

Yes/No       Click Yes or No to answer questions that the informants
             ask you. When you respond in a way that pleases them, they
             may give you more information. If you agree with the
             informants when you shouldn't, they may sense that you're
             playing with them and turn on you.

Goodbye      After some amount of questioning, tou may find that you're
             up against a brick wall, that this person doesn't know
             anything, or that you've got hte information you need.
             Take your leave graciously and click Goodbye.

Remember, every minute you spend questioning the informants is one less
minute you'll get to spend underwater.

ART (Advanced Robotic Transcoordinator)
Once you land, you'll see a cutaway view of the Viceroy's cabin as it
bobs gently on the surface of the sea. You're standing near the edge of
the elevator shaft, geared up in a diving suit and air tanks. The four
arrows at the lower right corner of the screen control your movement.
For now, walk to the right by clicking on the right arrow and holding
it down. When you're directly in front of the ART, stop walking by
releasing the button and click the square in the center of the arrows.

ART, your computer, is the central intelligence of your operation. In
addition to the functions listed below, ART deploys RUF, the underwater
robot that accompanies you on all your missions.

Done         Click this when you're done working with ART.
Msg          Click this for messages about an upcoming expedition, and
             about events that transpired during or after your dive. Be
             sure to consult ART as soon as the Viceroy lands by click-
             ing Msg.
Base         Click this to end a mission and return to Base. You won't
             gain experience if you abort a mission in progress; in
             fact, your health or certain attribute values may decline.
             On the other hand, if you successfully complete your mis-
             sion, your experience points and attribute values will
             increase. Whether you return to Base with or without
             succeeding in your mission, you get to keep any tools you
             found.
Scan         This brings up a grid overlay of the ocean floor. In the
             center of the grid you'll see images of the Viceroy and
             RUF. You can use this grid to perform the initial scan of
             the area and to pinpoint objects in certain coordinates.
             This gives you a better idea of the range you need to
             cover in your dive. To scan, move the arrow to any loca-
             tion on the grid, hold the button down, and drag the arrow
             across the grid in any direction. A yellow box outlines
             the area of your scan. Scan also has the following
             features:

       Coordinates  Move the pointer to any pplace on the grid and
                    click to get the coordinates. If you've just
                    scanned an area, the coordinates represent the spot
                    where you released the button.
       Time Cost    As you select an area to be scanned, you're racking
                    up a time cost that you must pay if you decide to
                    scan that area. This will be deducted from the
                    overall time allotted to you for this mission. If
                    clues suggest that the target isn't far from the
                    Viceroy, you may want to scan a smaller area of the
                    ocean floor, which costs less than scanning the
                    entire ocean floor.
       Total Cost   This is the total time deducted from your mission
                    for all the scans you made.
       Scan         Once you've selected an area, click Scan and ob-
                    jects on the ocean floor within the yellow box will
                    show up on the grid. Click on any of the objects to
                    get their exact coordinates.
       Cancel       If you change your mind about the area to be
                    scanned, click Cancel and the scan box will dis-
                    appear from the grid. You're now free to create a
                    new scan box. You can't cancel once you've clicked
                    Scan.
       Show         Click Show to remove the images of the Viceroy and
                    RUF, which allows you to see all the objects mapped
                    on the grid. Once you've noted where those objects
                    are, you can reverse Show by clicking it again.
       Done         When you finish scanning the ocean floor, click
                    Done. This returns you to ART's information screen.

Status       Click Status to check on your attributes. If this is your
             first mission, you have 100 experience points and your
             health is 100%. When your health gets low, you should
             enter the medical beam to recuperate.

The Medical Beam
The medical beam is the room marked with a cross to the left of the
elevator shaft. You can go there to restore your health. When you
enter, you'll see "Med. Beam ready for activation" and your health and
experience point levels. To activate the medical beam, click
the box in the center of the arrows. When you use the medical beam, you
also use experience points; if you heal 21 points, it costs you 21 ex-
perience points. If your health is too low to dive and you're out of
experience points, then you're forced into early retirement. It's time
to create a new character and start the game over.

The Gear Room

Located on the top deck, the gear room is where you store tools and
other items used on your dives. Move to the center of the elevator
shaft, and click the up arrow. Now click the box in the center of the
arrows to call up the two tools lists. Available Tools shows all the
tools that you have, while Utility Belt shows the tools that you're
going to take down with you when you dive. You can only use those tools
that you load in your utility belt before you dive, and you can carry a
maximum of five at a time.

For a description of a tool, highlight one from Available Tools, and
then click Info. To remove the description, click Info in the upper
left corner. To add a tool to your utility belt, highlight the tool on
Available Tools, highlight an empty space on Utility Belt and then
click Get. To remove a tool from your belt, click the name of the tools
on Utility Belt and then click Drop. When you're through, close the
gear room door by clicking Exit.

Underwater Maneuvers
Once you've got your tools, you're ready to dive. Walk back to the
elevator and click the down arrow until the elevator reaches the bottom
of the Viceroy. Click again to dive to the bottom of the ocean.

You'll see the elapsed time for the mission in the upper left corner of
the scren in an hour:minute:second format. In the lower part of the
screen, you'll see the Underwater Actions Menu, where you control your
underwater actions and communicate with RUF and ART. To get to this
menu, double click the button. You can alos press M, which works as
long as you're not Armed.

Swim         When you begin your dive, this is red. Start swimming by
             moving the mouse in the direction you want to swim. One
             movement of the mouse is enough to keep you going in that
             direction. If the current is strong, it may be hard for
             you to swim in a certain direction, especially if you
             don't have enough strength. (If you have one, a propulsion
             unit helps in these situations.) To stop swimming, click
             the right button or press <RETURN>. Any movement of the
             mouse will start you swimming again.

Scan         You can do this by clicking Scan and then Swim. Hold down
             the button and you'll see a scanning box with cross hairs.
             The cross hairs are properly centered on an object when
             the object is identified in the bottom menu.
             When this happens, release the button and ART will pick up
             the scan. Question ART about the object by clicking Art
             and then Info.
Armed        To ready your weapon, click Armed. (You can also press the
             spacebar to toggle between Scan and Armed.) To fire your
             weapon, hold down the button and you'll see a scanning
             box. Focus the cross hairs on your target. When you're
             ready to shoot, remove your finger from the button for a
             fraction of a second, and click again. Hold down the
             button for maximum fire power. If you're accurate and if
             your target is vulnerable, it will disappear of explode.
             Because of the peculiar nature of underwater terrain, your
             depth perception may be off, so don't be surprised if you
             find yourself missing enemies on your first mission.
Surface      This gets you back to the Viceroy. You'll return to the
             elevator shaft where your tanks are immediately refilled.
             Surfacing causes you to lose your position in the water,
             so when you dive back down, you'll be back in the middle
             of the map.
Air          During your dives, keep an eye on your air meter. When air
             is low, you can voluntarily surface to replenish your sup-
             ply; otherwise, ART will force you to surface wth an Air
             Emergency Diver Pickup operation. If ART is forced to
             rescue you, you'll be penalized with a 5% decrease in
             health.
Health       Your health decreases if you're attacked and injured, if
             you're exposed to highly toxic waters, or if ART must
             force you up for air. When your health gets dangerously
             low, go to the medical beam to recuperate. Remember the
             old Academy rule: Obitum re infecta - Death leaves busi-
             ness unfinished.
Energy       This meter is activated when you use an energy cell from
             your utility belt. Energy cells are used to power tools
             such as propulsion units or transmitters.
POS          The position coordinates are calculated on an X/Y axis
             that begins in the lower left corner of the grid. You can
             see that axis in the initial Scan grid onboard the Viceroy
             or in RUF's programming grid. If you activate RUF's cam-
             era, the numbers indicate RUF's position, not yours.

ART Underwater
When you're underwater, ART lets you beam up objects or beam down
devices you need. He also gives you information on the underwater
terrain, objects, and environment.

Beam         This lets you beam objects to and from the Viceroy. To
             beam something up, scan the object (it's properly
             scanned when it's identified in the bottom menu). Next,
             click Art, click Beam, and then click Up. You can't beam
             more than one object at a time; if you scan a number of
             objects, the last one you scanned is the one that ART will
             beam up.
             To beam something down, click Beam and then Down. Next,
             select an item from the Hold Iterms list using the up and
             down arrows on your keyboard, highlight the plane where
             the object will be beamed down to (the highlighted plane
             will be pink), then click Scan and Swim. Hold down the
             button and you'll see a scanning box. Focus the cross
             hairs where you want the item to be placed. When you're
             ready to beam down, remove your finger from the button for
             a fraction of a second, and click again.
Info         When ART is blinking, he has a message; click Info to
             retrieve it. The information can include data on a scanned
             object, recent developments in the overall scenario, or
             information pertaining to the terrain or the toxic level
             of the water.
Stats        Stats displays your Diver Profile since you last completed
             an episode, except for health. Changes in health are
             registered immediately.
Tools        This brings up your utility belt. Click the tool in the
             Current Tool list and it will activate, if possible. To
             exit, click the Current Tools title bar. In your dives,
             part of your assignment is to acquire tools that you can
             use in future episodes. Whenever you find a tool, have ART
             beam it up for you.

RUF (Remote Underwater Friend)
Your mission often requires you to search for underwater objects great
distances apart. By programming RUF to go to specific coordinates while
you check out others, you can get twice the work done. After you dive,
double click to get the selection arrow and then click Ruf to activate
the following options:

Cam          This shows RUF's underwater view. It lets you view exactly
             what RUF sees.
Prog         RUF's programming grid highlights the same objects that
             ART scanned back on the Viceroy. To program RUF to swim
             where you want him to, first click Show to remove the
             Viceroy and Diver images. Then click and hold the button
             down on RUF's image. Drag RUF along the path you want him
             to search. Click Erase if you want to try again. If RUF
             has a path laid out from a previous programming session,
             erase it before giving him a new one.
             Next, you'll want to set RUF's reporting level. "Cau-
             tious," the fastest level, asks him to keep a distance
             from objects and only to check with you if he sees some-
             thing. "Aggressive" asks RUF to check things up close and
             name the object. "Neutral" asks RUF to identify only the
             object's attributes. You can also specify the attributes
             of the objects RUF should search for: Chemicals, Tempera-
             ture Change, Radioactivity, or Metal. In general, the
             more RUF has to search for, the longer he takes. When
             you've finished programming RUF, click Done.
Msg          Click this when RUF is flashing. He wants to tell you
             what he has sensed or how he feels.
Goto         Click this to have RUF travel to the last object he repor-
             ted and to stay there until you turn this off by clicking
             it again.

Completing a Mission
When the mission is over, ART will give you a recap on your success or
failure. If you've completed the mission successfully, your experience
points will increase and you abilities will increase. The better job
you do, the more rewarding your promotion will be. You can go on to the
next mission or quit for now by returning to Base. Your character will
be updated and saved for future missions.

Reruns
You have the option of rerunning any of the missions you've completed.
Many of the missions require you to use special tools to complete them.
These tools may or may not be found in the scenario you're in; conse-
quently, you might need to rerun a previous mission to retreve them.
Tools are transferable; once you find themn, you can use them in any
mission.

To run a mission over, answer "yes" when you're asked "Would you like a
rerun?" (This question comes up after you've loaded the game and
enetered your agent's name.) Enter the number of any mission that
you've completed. You don't gain experience from reruns, but you can be
injured.

Foundation Dossier
Headquarters has given you the following important documents concerning
the missions you will undertake. You are to read only the sections when
you're instructed to by headquarters. Several plebes who feared a good
challenge have been caught pre-reading the dossier. A particualr timid
cadet who confessed to studying the folder in advance has been
dismissed for compromising the integrity of The Foundation. The
Foundation only hopes that you will not mar you professional career
with a similar display of weakness.

Assignment 1. The Golden Galleon
Argos Document: Surprised by a sudden hurricane, the SPanish Galleon
Tristeza sank in 1579 in the Caribbean Sea near Haiti. A Spanish
nobleman was aboard, returning to the Old World to contest his
brother's seizure of their land. Also aboard was a chest of gold
treasures of the Incas. The Seekers have uncovered the location of the
Tristeza, and transmitted the coordinates to ART aboard the Viceroy.
The treasure lies on the sea floor somewhere near the wreck. You are to
find and retrieve the treasure so it can be displayed in museums around
the world, instead of being melted down and sold on the black market.

As you know, the Sea Thief Cafe is a popular drinking place for local
sailors, traders, and other characters with valuable information. You
may wish to stop there before leaving for Port-au-Prince on your
Caribbean mission. The Sea Thief is owned by Ilya Shasherin, a former
Foundation Agent, whose spirit for adventure was sabotaged by his
adventure with spirits. Ilya is a good man and, despite his troubles, a
loyal friend of The Foundation. His patrons, however, tend to punch,
stab, and shoot first, and ask questions later. Caution is not only
 advisable, it is necessary.

The Tristeza may lie an ocean away, but someone in that cafe will know
something of value about the treasure.

Assignment 2.  The Weakest Link
Argos Document: Deep in the North Atlantic a cable has been severed.
This cable is the backup for the Hot Line between Washington and
Moscow. With neither nation trusting the satellite link, it is the only
direct path of communications between the leaders. Many times in the
past the reassurance of speaking as one human being to another has kept
world tensions from exploding into war.

As you know, both countries have shunned communications satellites due
to disturbances in their signals which led them to believe their
messages were being intercepted. Our experts say cyclical sunspot
activity is to blame, but they do not accept our findings.

The cable disruption has both nations approaching a level of panic,
despite the fact that our sources continue to report that neither
nation is involved in any new activity. Without a direct link, neither
can convince the other of their innocence. If we are to break the
pattern of mutual distrust before innocent lives are lost, that cable
must be returned to service.

Assignment 3.  Of Pearls and Sunken Ships
Argos Document: A cruise ship in the Aegean was attacked last week and
the passengers' valuables - several million dollars worth - were
stolen. No one was hurt. Six oil tankers have disappeared in the
northern portions of the Indian Ocean in the last six months. None of
the ships or the crews have been seen or heard from again. Offshore
drilling rigs in South America and Asia have likewise been found
deserted. All the storage facilities were drained and all the men
remain missing. A newly discovered Roman treaure ship in shallow waters
off the Western Asiatic has been stripped clean. The guards were all
shot in the back, their bodies washing ashore near Brindisi last night.

Somebody is striking unmercifully in the pursuit of wealth. Our only
lead is a man who phoned the presidents of all the major American and
European television networks, claiming that he could seize control of
their satellite networks at any time. He told them he would not do so
because he would soon be so famous that their news programs would
discuss his every move.

All that is most unusual, but now for your immediate mission. The pearl
beds in the sea of Japan are dying, polluted by an unknown source.
Supplies from elsewhere in the worls have already been wiped out by
contamination from unrestricted oil drilling and, as a result, the
price of pearls has skyrocketed on the world markets. You must find the
source of the pollution and cleanse it form the ocean floor so the
pearl beds can once again flourish.

Assignment 4.  Lost and Yet at Home
Argos Document: Aquacity, the experimental undersea research station,
has been swept by a powerful virus. The marine geologists, and
seismologists who live there lie perilously close to death.

Our doctors are unable to visit Aquacity to treat the victims, since
doing so would risk allowing the deadly virus to escape into the worls.
Instead, the scientists sent blood samples to the surface enabling
immunologists to develop a vaccine. But when the vaccine was dropped to
Aquacity, it never reached the scientists below. About 20 minutes after
you arrive in the area, the vaccine will begin to decompose. Although
it will still be fully potent, its reading on RUF's sensors will change
from chemical to heat. Use your toxicity sensor to check if the parcels
you find contain poison.

No group has ever expressed opposition to Aquacity and there is no
ransom deman. Unlike your previous mission where greed and pride have
been elements, the motivation for this attack seems to be to simply
destroy Aquacity. You must proceed to the Western Mediterranean, find
the missing vaccine, and bring it to Aquacity.
Assignment 5.  And Only One May Live

Argos Document: There recently have been many reports by the fishermen
of Mayotte, Anjouan, and Grand Comoro of a living coelacanth seen by
local divers in the northern end of the Mozambique Channel. Poachers
have converged on Madagascar, each wishing to capture the coelacanth to
sell to a private collector for upwards of seven figures.

The Seekers report that one of the poachers successfully captured the
coelacanth, drugged it, and was transporting it in a special
pressurized cage. In the ultimate irony of human avarice, their boat
was attacked by rival criminals. In the ensuing chase, the coelacanth
fell overboard in its cage and was lost. Our only clue to its location
lies in the frantic mayday message and coordinated that were the last
words heard from the pochers vessel. You are to go to Grand Comoro,
locate the drugged coelacanth and rescue it from its prison. If
neccessary, you can bring it here, where it can be protected.

Assignment 6. Too Far Below
Argos Document: A small American submarine, engaged in peaceful
scientific research on unusual seisic activity near Fiji, has been
depth-charged and severely damaged. It lies helpless on the seabed, but
the crew remains alive. Forced to abandon their vessel due to a
radiation leak, they took to the survival spheres. Because of limited
oxygen supply, this offers only a short extension on their lives.

By the time you reach the site, only 30 minutes remain before the crew
dies of asphyxiation. The radiation level in the area is gradually
growing worse, making your mission progressively dangerous. You must
recover the twelve trapped scientists and return them to Base in the
Viceroy.

Assignment 7.  Strange Allies
Argos Document: The consortium International du Exploitation Miniere
(CIEM), headquartered in Paris, has just won permission from
International Court for its plans to mine the ocean floor in shallow
waters. They plan to use massive explosive charges to expose and mine
deposits of high-grade manganese. In the process, they will exterminate
virtually every living creature and plant in a twenty-square kilometer
area.

The first parcel CIEM plans to mine os near the mouth of the Sea of
COrtez, just over 300 kilometers southwest of Mazatlan and 320
kilometers south of Cabo San Lucas. I must stress the fact that since
the rewriting of the Oceanic Mineral and Petroleum Exploitation
Guidelines by the United Nations three years ago, what CIEM plans to do
is completely legal, despite the fact that their activites amy make

We must intervene. Our only ally is a Greenpeace ship which has sailed
into the target area. CIEM has pledged to begin mining despite the
ship's presence. You are to go to the Sea of Cortez, protect the
Greenpeaces ship, and stop the destruction of this ecosystem. Sometimes
international laws must be broken for the greater good. By the time you
arrive, only 45 minutes remain before the scheduled detonation.

Assignment 8. The Citadel Unsought
Argos Document: A short time ago, you were sent to prevent CIEM from
disturbing an area near the Sea of Cortez, which lies in the mitigation
route of several species of whales. Now you have the opportunity to
participate in the study of those whales. The study will take place in
the south, off the coast of Peru.

Six months ago, a team of our biologists strapped navagational data
recorders to three whales in the Pacific to track their migration pat-
terns. Each recorder is secured to the base of the whale's tail with a
special catch mechanism which can be released by a radio command from a
remote control unit. The appropriate frequency and expert system
program code has already been communicated to ART aboard the Viceroy,
and your ship has been equipped with the remote control device. Your
mission is to locate the whales, release the recorders, and then dive
to recover them.

Assignment 9.  The Hunter Trapped
Argos Document: Two documents that we recoverd from the damaged
Galapagos compound were maps of the area. They had no special codes or
markings. One was topographical, while the other was the type used by
geologists when sounding for oil deposits. They contained data indica-
ting that Tiwanaku had carefully searched the entire area for
geological formations which suggest the presence of petroleum and gas.
They also show the location of three small earthquake faults in the
region.

Another document fragmetn was transmitted directly as alphanumeric data
by our investigative agent. Here is the text which it contained:

                                                   e
                                      a          uct
                                     est       lysis
                 indi              prese  e  of get
                 on the          oor which sugges
                 for the        ect.
                 This sho ld enable us to being res
                 of the Capitol of the Second Age,
                 the coast of Peru.  After this fi
                 be able to attain our ultimate o

As I told you when you arrived, the agent who recovered these papers
was found murdered near the Sea Thief Cafe shortly after her return to
Base. We have no suspects in the crime. Since the evidence had already
been delivered to The Foundation and her cash and jewelry were stolen,
it may be the work of petty thieves.

An American submarine, a portion of its hull breached by an accidental
explosion, lies abandoned on the sea floor of the Baltic. It rests in
international waters some 150 kilomters west of Klaipeda, in the
Lithuanian S.S.R. This is a Class VIII military attack sub equipped
with the latest in missile guidance technology developed by the United
States. Fortunately, the U.S. Navy has already rescued those sailors
who survived the initial accident. Both the Soviet Union and the United
States wish to recover the submarine; the Soviets wish to secure the
missile guiadance system for study and the Americans wish to avoid just
that.

We are bound by our charter to assist any government of the workd in
salvage operation that they undertake to recover lost vessels.
Normally, we are not asked to recover military vessels out of respect
for our commitment to world peace, but in this case, the American
government has asked us to intervene on humanitarian grounds. They have
made the case that peace is disrupted when there is a shift in the
equilibrium, and the Soviet's acquisition of those missile guidance
systems would cause such a shift.

We will not recover the submarine ourselves. They have dispatched their
new salvage ship, the Glomar Inimidator, and ask only for our help in
locating and marking the wreck. The Intimidator will expect the
location marked approximately 35 minutes after you reach the search
area.

Assignment 10.  The Arch and the Chain
Argos Document: In the Central South Pacific, the krill are disap-
pearing and the creatures which normally feed on these tiny crusta-
ceans are starving. As the creatures starve to death, another link in
the marine food chain disappears, and others will starve. The cycle
will repeat until destruction is complete.

We already know the source of this tragedy. Here is the test of the
message we received last night on our supposedly-secret frequencies.

        Greetings to the Board of Light of The Foundation. I am the
        one known as Slingjaw, and you are already familiar with
        many of my accomplishments.

        It was I who directed the robbery that drained millions of
        ill-gotten dollars from the pampered exploiters aboard the
        cruise ship in the Aegean.

        It was I who took the tankers and oil rigs around the world,
        selling the oil they stole from the sea floor and using the
        proceeds to finance my operations to regain control of the
        seas.

        It was I who took the treasures of the Roman vessel so the
        materials could be studied instead of hoarded by collectors
        and so-called museums.

        And it was I who fed false weather data through the North At-
        lantic phone cable, diverting the barge of toxic wastes into
        the storm in the Sea of Japan to sink and pollute the ocean
        floor. My own pearl beds, one of the last sources, earned me
        millions before the environment was restored.

        It was I who rescued Tiwanaku when your agent accidentally
        discovered his undersea headquarters. We are now allied in the
        effort to restore the workd to its pure and natural state.

        You will study me, now that I have shared my name. One day you
        will know me well.

This ends the message. As Slingjaw predicted, we are searching the
world's database network for any information on him. It is clear that
he has a monumental ego, seeks power and wealth, and has the
pretensions of studying history.

As for the fate of the krill, unless the cause of the krill's
disappearamce is stopped and the population restored, the entire South
Pacific food chain will be destroyed. Proceed to the area at once and
take whatever steps are necessary to reverse the process.

Assignment 11.  Brothers of the Sea
Argos Document: The following message between Tiwanaku and Slingjaw was
intercepted and decoded by our cryptographers here at Base and shows
not only that they are allied, but that the alliance is an uneasy one.

     Slingjaw: All aspects of my plan are proceeding at full speed.

     Tiwanaku: Your mouth is what has been proceeding at full speed,
               with your boasts to The Foundation. That pride will be
               the end of you, Carl....

     Slingjaw: Do you wish your mortal name spoken, too, O Great
               Tiwanaku?

     Tiwanaku: We wish that you would not speal at all, you pompous
               idiot! We want nothing to do with your bloodthirsty
               avarice and your willingness to destroy the sea in order
               to save it! Our mission is to restore the proper balance
               of the oceanic and the continental worlds. Only by doing
               so can we set the spiritual stage for the restoration of
               Atlantis.

     Slingjaw: And while you've been busy settin spiritual stages and
               calling me bloodthirsty, I've been doing all your dirty
               work!

     Tiwanaku: Dirty work is sometimes necessary when one's goals are
               for the good of the planet. But your pollution of the
               Sea of Japan in order to earn profit for yourself was a
               crime of immense proportions. If we had known about it,
               we would have assisted The Foundation.

     Slingjaw: Just as you did off the coast of Mexico with CIEM's
               mining plans.

     Tiwanaku: Precisely, and as we would do again. Remember, Slingjaw,
               we accept your help in gratitude for your brave defense
               in the Galapagos. What else you earn from us depends
               solely upon your loyalty and your faithfulness to our
               cause.

     Slingjaw: And who has struggled more tirelessly in your cause?

     Tiwanaku: It is the word "your" that worries us. To fight by our
               side is not enough; you must share not only the battle,
               but the peace that follows.

     Slingjaw: In Lima...

     Tiwanaku: We care not what happened in Lima! You will support our
               goals or be banished from our numbers. We have no more
               to say.

Compared to the slim fragments of information we previously possessed
on these two, this is a windfall of information. Tiwanaku seems to
represent a force which is philosophically different from that of The
Foundation, even a force which is openly hostile to the world as we
know it. But in contrast to Slingjaw, whose only motives are fame and
fortune, Tiwanaku also appears to be guided by many of the same values
which you and I joined The Foundation for and have dedicated our lives
to. We must focus our attention on destroying Slingjaw as soon as
possible, while keeping a close eye on Tiwanaku as well.

Now for your mission. Our research lab has just created an improved
version of RUF which they named RUF2. Robots and other equipment used
in our field operations are shipped to the Base at Isla Perdida in
specially guarded ships, with routes and schedules known only to a
select few within the organization. But someone - we suspect Slingjaw -
gained knowledge of the shipment and now the nondescript cargo vessel
carrying RUF2 has disappeared after leaving port in Marseilles.

RUF2's possible location was revealed to us only by accident, and still
remains a matter of conjecture. A salvage operator attempting to
recover items of value from the Titanic has disappeared; his deserted
shipe was found floating down current from where the Titanic lies on
the bottom of the North Atlantic. Since RUF2' is ideally suited for
such a purpose and since Slingjaw is known to pursue his peculiar
salvage operations in a particularly vicious manner, the coincidence is
too great for us to ignore.

You are to go to the North Atlantic, investigate the area around the
Titanic, and attempt to recover RUF2.

Assignment 12.  Ghosts of Friends and Strangers
Xanthus Document: We knew that something was amiss when you weren't
getting all the available information.

When you went to the Mediterranean to save the scientists in Aquacity,
you were not informed of the missing marker buoy, although it was
reported by the local fishermen. When you saved the sailors in the
seismographic research sub near Fiji, you received incorrect data on
the currents in the area.

When you stopped the French mining company from setting off explosives
in the Sea of Cortez, you were told that you were breaking
international law in the name of a greater good. In reality, by
protecting the Greenpeace ship, you were upholding international law
since the safety of its sailors takes precedence over the rights of
mining and salvage.
You were given a misquote in the message from Tiwanaku after your
contact off of Mexico. We still do not know why Argos said "As the moon
rises and the sea follows, so shall the moon follow the sea" when you
reported the words "...so shall the earth follow the sea."

Jana, the agent who searched the remains of Tiwanaku's base in the
Galapagos, was murdered near the wharf on Isla Perdida. Despite its
transient population of sailors and misfits, no one dares raise a hand
against us there; to so so is certain death.

Argo's pursuit of the investigation was half-hearted. The only Tiwanaku
document he shared with you was the one which Jana transmitted over
frequencies monitored in Lucerne. Because of the lack of struggle, we
assume Jana was kiled by an acquaintance - perhaps Argos himself. Her
logbook, found hidden there, indicates that she had many charts and
plans which she had brought to Base for further study. We assume that
Argos destroyed them to protect Tiwanaku from The Foundation.

The Arch of Time which you discovered near Antartica was denied by
Argos and stricken from all The Foundation records. Yet now the Seekers
report that it is an area of intense activity by our enemies,
apparently kept informed by Argos. The Seekers also report that those
who have tried to youe the Arch have, unlike you, never returned.

But the final proof came in your last mission. The transcribed message
Argos shared with you was too clear, too complete. Even our best
descrambling equipment - as ART once proved to you - can only intercept
parts of such messages. When Argos tried to convince you that Slingjaw
was our real enemy, the issue became clear.

We immediately took action. A team of agents from our headquarters
joined me on a dupship, and within hours we arrived at Isla Perdida.
But before we reached the Base, Argos committed his final crime,
attempting to order you to break off your mission to recapture RUF2 and
return to Base. At this moment, we are combing every ocean of the world
to find him.

We have been searching Argo's quarters for any information concerning
his renegade undertakings. In addition to finding Jana's logbook, we
found this biography on Slingjaw. You will find it most interesting
reading.

     Slingjaw's real name is Carl Westerberg. He studied anthropology
     and archeology at the University of Stockholm, ultimately becoming
     recognized for his brilliant discovery of sunken Greek cities in
     the Aegean. From there his interest grew to the study of the
     Atlantis legends and the search for Atlantan culture.

     Despite his recognition as a scholar, he repeatedly failed to win
     significant teaching positions in the European and American
     universities. Finally, he ws hired by the University of Lima as an
     Assistant Professor in Archeology and History.
     Once in Peru, he quickly became interested in Incan culture, and
     particularly in the possibility of submerged Incan cities off the
     west coast of South America. It was at this thim that he met Maria
     Elena Yupanqui, a radical anarchist and also a student of arche-
     ology. Westerberg fell passionately in love with her, but she
     apparently was more interested in politics and archeology than in
     marriage. He was devastated by her rejection.

     Trying to forget his unhappiness, he conducted explorations off
     the Peruvian Coast with a tremendous disregard for his own safety.
     Finally, the inevitabel happened. While investigating the hold of
     a sunken Spanish galleon, he was crushed by a falling beam. His
     life was saved only through the actions of an alert diving robot
     he had brought as an assistant.

     Westerberg was rushed to the Stanford University Medical Center in
     California, where doctors struggle to stabilize his condition. As
     the vital signs gradually worsened, they took the only course that
     remained open and performed an experimental procedure which made
     Westerberg a robot from the waist down. Many of his internal
     organs - including his heart - were replaced with functionally
     equivalent electromechanical devices. Metal plates were set in his
     forehead and jaw, hence his name.

     After a long convalescence, Westerberg was a radically altered and
     embittered man. He felt that land-based society had ignored his
     genius just as surely as it had lost the genius of past civiliza-
     tions of Greece, Peru, and Atlantis. He, along with the crabots he
     designed, will strive to destory moderm society's control of the
     world through the land and introduce his own mastery based from
     the sea. He has already anointed himself as Emperor of the New
      Order. Carl Westerberg is no longer an archeologist - he is a
      monster.

You must find SLingjaw and destroy him. Ghostly apparitions have been
reprted by native divers in the area around Fiji, not far from where
you rescued the crew of a sabotaged seismographic research submarine.
The Seekers are fearful of the area since it is the site of ancient
temples; they regard it as a place of death.

You are to proceed to Fiji, investigate these reports, and describe to
us your findings.

Assignment 13.  When the Dead Shall Rise Again
Xanthus Document: First, I will share with you another documnet found
in Argos' quarters.

     After Pizarro murdered the Incan emperor and massacred the
     empire's nobility in 1533, a few surviving members of the royal
     family went into hiding. For 26 generations, Inca customs and
     powers have been orally passed on to those descendents of the
     royal family. Their history has been kept alive for the day when
     the Incan empire returns to its rightful position of dominace in
     the world.

     Tiwanaku is Emperor of Peru and High Priest of the god Viracocha.
     He is the eldest direct descendent of Tupac Yupanqui, last emperor
     to rule without interference from the Spaniards. Financed by
     income rom secret ancient gold mines still undiscovered in the
     Andes, he pursues his dream to prove that Atlantis was the
     original island home of the Incas. The destruction of Atlantis
     forced the seafaring people to sail away to the southwest on the
     North Equatorial Current to establish their new empire on a
     primitive continent.

     Tiwanaku believes that when the people of Atlantis came to South
     America and became the Incas, they were corrupted by the land and
     lost their understanding of the ocean, from which they gained
     their strength. His mission in life is to reassert that strength
     and power.

Tiwanaku wishes to dominate the world and restore the culture of
Atlantis. How that is to be done remains a mystery.

Turn your attention to the map which you recovered on your last
mission. It details the location of a sunken Incan city off the coast
of Peru so precisely that you will go to this site. We do not know what
Tiwanaku is planning there, but the presence of an undersea Incan
temple suggests it may be the site of a major operation. You are to go
to the Peruvian coast, locate the sunken city, and stop Tiwanaku from
carrying out his plans.

Assignment 14.  Return to Atlantis
Argos Document: Almost exactly 30 years before you joined The
Foundation, I was a young agent fresh out of the Academy. For 18 years
I dove on mission much like those you have undertaked.

I was the agent who destroyed the mutant life forms in the Celebes Sea,
harpooning the largest of the serpents and riding it for two days until
I finally drove the poisoned tip through its thich armor and into its
putrid flesh.

I was the one who saved the last eight sperm whales from the Poacher
Gang and brought them to the Secret Haven so they could rebuild their
species.

I was the one who gathered the evidence that proved the case against
Abu Oil, resulting in the shutdown of their offshore drilling
operations that endangered life in the Red Sea.

I was...I was rewarded with a promotion from the field into administra-
tion - a desk job - and ultimately to the Board of Light of The Foun-
dation itself.

But somehow the reward became a punishment. After so many years of
contact with the sea, I felt more at home in the water than on land. I
could neither contradict nor ignore my deep-seated conviction that man
had exploited the sea out of greed with no concern for the life that
lived there.

One lonely January morning, when the wind and rain blew bitter cold, I
woke up and realized that after 30 years of being a hero, I had no
wife, no children, no friends. I lived alone in a five-room house on a
tiny god-forsaken island in the middle of nowhere.

I have travelled to the homes of my brethren on the Board of Light.
These philanthropists have supported The FOundations's work out of a
dedication to its ideals and a desire to use their welath to benefit
the netire planet. They had the gentle soft faces of comfort on the
land. They had sought what they wanted for themselves first, and then
turned to the needs of others. I finally realized my great mistake.

Such men say that they are good and seek only the balance between the
needs of humans and the needs of the sea. Yet does a gallon of water
and a gallon of air balance on any human scale? The governments of the
world are corrupt and violent. You saw for yourself how they approached
the brink of destruction when the transatlantic cable was damaged.

What honor was there in the Mozambique Strait, where you risked your
life to save a lonely, frightened fish from roving bounty hunters
seeking its capture? And why did you defy the International Court and
sabotage the detonation of the explosives by the mining company in the
Sea of Cortez? Because you recognized that there is a higher right than
the laws of humans, and that is the right of life itself.

Only in the sea does such freedom continue, because only in the sea
have humans failed to establish the domination of air and fire over the
peace of water. You and I may have started as humans, but we have
learned to be one with the sea.
