                                   ______
                         /           |  /   |
                        /__   /  \   | /   /|    /  /
                          / |/   |\  |/\  | | | /| /
                         /  |\ | |/  |  \ |/  |/ |/
                        /   |  | /   |   \|   |  |
                      \      __|__        \
                      |\       |                  /
                      |/        /            |   /__  
                      |  |/ /_ /__ /_ |\ | -----   /
                      |  |  \    / \  | \|   |    /
                                /        \   |   /Mct!

                              RED BARON DOCS
                              ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

         Docs typed by Mictlantecuhtli and supplied by Nightspawn


Please Note: these are the IBM docs but they should be very close the the
Amiga docs. Also, I have only done the Game Play chapter since this is the
only section that you must have in order to play the game. I have left out
the Historical Overview, Historical Flight Reference, and Appendices. If
there is enough whining, begging and pleading, I will do the Historical
Flight Reference and Appendices. If someone has the maps, digitize them or
send them to me so that I can do it; the game isn't complete without them.

One last note: IF YOU LIKE THE GAME BUY IT! YOU GET THE COMPLETE DOCS AND
MAPS WHEN YOU DO! Oh joy! Not to forget that these docs are for archival
purposes only since whoever has them also had the actual docs but his dog
(or little brother) ate them! And he really did buy the original but it
was consumed in the fire that....well, er, you get the idea.


                                GAME PLAY

                               INTRODUCTION

Red Baron is an historically accurate and detailed recreation of flight
during the era that launched aerial combat, World War I. The controls
available to the great Aces were few and primitive. However, as a
computerized simulation, Red Baron is capable of offering you controls
unlike anything the Aces would have ever dreamed. This portion of the Red
Baron manual outlines and describes these controls. It does not describe
the elements of flight such as take-off and landing, maneuvers, and
tactics. These elements are discussed in detail in previous chapters.
Please refer to the table of contents for specific page references.

Following are the sections described in this chapter:

  -Flight Controls
  -View Commands
  -Machine Gun Controls
  -Time Compression
  -Game Play Preferences
  -Realism Panel
  -Weather
  -Your flight Group
  -Simulation Overview
  -Fly Single Mission
  -Fly Single Mission Condidtions
  -The Mission Assignment Screen
  -The Flightr Assignments Screen
  -Navigation
  -Ending the Mission
  -Career Play
  -Career Menu
  -Aerodrome Menu
  -Career Sequences
  -The Mission Recorder

                                GAME PLAY

                             FLIGHT CONTROLS:

Movement

You use the control surfaces and throttle to maneuver your aircraft (for
more detail, see the Flight Section). These include the ailerons, the
elevators, the rudder, and the throttle.
From the Preferences Panel (activated from the simulation by pressing
F10), you may select which peripheral you have attached. You may select:
keyboard, joystick, or mouse.

Keyboard and joystick:

                               Pitch Down
   Roll Left and Pitch Down 7      8      9 Roll Right and Pitch Down
   Roll to the Left         4             6 Roll to the Right
   Roll Left and Pitch Up   1      2      3 Roll Right and Pitch Up

Mouse:
 
The mouse controls are identical to those for the joystick. For movement
controls, the mouse is self centering. This means that it will
automatically recenter itself  after each movement command.

Rudder

The rudders can be controlled from the keyboard at any time. They can also
be controlled from the joystick or mouse while in the cockpit view.

  Keyboard Rudder Controls
  <                  left rudder
  >                  right rudder

Joystick Rudder Controls
While in the cockpit view, you may control the rudder with the joystick
or mouse by pressing and hold both buttons on the joystick or mouse. When
both buttons are held down simultaneously, moving the joystick or mouse
left and right will apply rudder in the corresponding direction. External
views do not allow rudder control form the joystick or mouse. The keyboard
must be used for external view rudder control.

Throttle

The throttle can be controlled by mouse, joystick, or keyboard.

  Keyboard Throttle Controls
  1...9               controlls throttle
                      1=idle
                      9=full throttle
  +                   increase throttle
  -                   decrease throttle

Joystick Throttle Controls
Within the cockpit you may control the throttle with the joystick by
holding and pressing both buttons on the joystick. When both buttons are
held down simultaneously, moving the joystick forward will increase
throttle, and moving it backward will decrease it. This will not work for
you if your view is outside the aircraft. The keyboard must be used for
throttle control in external views.

Instruments

From the Realism Panel, if you turn on Realistic Instrumentsthe only
instruments you will see will be the ones that existed on the original WWI
aircraft.

Altimeter
Indicates the altitude in feet. The large needle indicates 100's of
feet, and the small needle indicates 1,000's of feet. It is set to 0 at
ground level.

Compass
Indicates your current heading. The readings are N for North, S for
South, W for West, E for East.

Fuel Gauge
Indicates how much you have left.

Air Speed Indicator
Indicates your current air speed in miles per hour.

Tachometer
Indicates how many revolutions per minute the engine is making. The
needle indicates rpm's x 100. generally, this corresponds to your current
throttle setting.

Oil Pressure Gauge
Indicates your current oil pressure. If your airplane is damaged and has
an oil leak, the needle will drop (NO SHIT!).

Inclinometer
Indicates the current bank of your aircraft. The instrument is simply a
ball bearing inside a curved grove. If the ball is to the left of center,
it means that you have banked left. It's a crude ancestor of the atificial
horizon equipped in aircraft today.

                              VIEW COMMANDS:

While patrolling the front, you'll find it necessary to look around often
to avoid being surprised. The best pilots of WWI were always looking for
enemy fighters.

  Controlling View Commands With the Keyboard

  Switching between cockpit and external view
  Press the return key

  From within you aircraft (cockpit views)
  F1    Look forward  (you instruments will be visible)
  F2    Look back
  F3    Look left
  F4    Look right
  F5    Look up
  F6    Look down (lean out and look straight down)

  From outside your aircraft (external views)
  F1    View the front of your aircraft
  F2    View the rear of your aircraft
  F3    View the left side of your aircraft
  F4    View the right side of your aircraft
  F5    View the bottom of your aircraft  (look up at your plane from a
        lower altitude)
  F6    View the top of your aircraft (looks directly down at your plane
        from a higher altitude)

  F7    View from a chase plane (the view follows your aircraft in a chase
        plane). F7 works from within the cockpit and outside your
        aircraft.

Controlling View Commands with the Joystick

You may control the current view without touching the keyboard.

From Within the Cockpit

Holding down button #2 and moving the joystick forward will switch to Look
Forward (F1), to the left will switch to look left (F3), etc. Pressing and
releasing button #2 with the joystick centered will switch from the
cockpit view to the outside rear view.

From Outside the Aircraft

Holding down button #2 while moving the joystick will pan the view
smoothly around the aircraft: moving the joystick to the left will pan the
view clockwise around your aircraft, moving the joystick forward will pan
the view up around the aircraft, etc. Holding down both buttons wile
moving the joystick foward/backwards will move the camera closer to/away
from the aircraft. Pressing and releasing button #2 with no joystick
movement will switch to the front cockpit view.

These commands may be duplicated without a joystick. The keypad will
function like the joystick, the space bar will function like button #1,
and the enter key will function llike button #2.

From any outside view, press ctrl-F1...F10 to save off the current view.
To switch to any of these saved views, use alt-F1...F10.

Mouse controls for view commands are identical to those of the joystick.
Button #1 = left button and button #2 = right button.

                          MACHINE GUN COMMANDS:

You are armed with one or two forward-firing machine guns (depending upon
the plane). That's all the WWI pilots needed. Before going up on the
mission, you may select what type of ammo to use:  incendiary or regular.
Incendiary ammo is used to attack Zepplins and balloons. It is extremely
difficult to ignite a dirigible with regular ammunition. However, regular
ammunition is more accurate and less likely to jam the machine guns.
Regular ammunition is also better against enemy airplanes than incendiary.

Occaisonally, your machine guns will jam. Firing a long burst from your
machine gun has a greater chance of jamming your guns than does a short
burst. This is why the good pilots would fire short bursts in their
attacks. If your guns are jammed, you may try to unjam them by repeatedly
pressing the "u" key. This won't always work, but keep trying. Note: it is
possible for your machine guns to permanently jam. You will receive an
on-screen message indicating this if your attempts at unjamming are
unsuccessful.

Press the space bar or button #1 to fire; press the "u" key to unjam the
guns.

                            TIME COMPRESSION:

There may be periods of the simulation play where there's not a lot of
action going on. Often this is after taking off as you make your way to
the front or after the mission is over and you are making your way back to
your aerodrome.

As a convenience, Red Baron contains a time compression modewhich will
speed up the simulation to amy times its normal speed. Time compression is
activated by pressing the "c" key.

Time compression will be automatically deactivated when you press the "c"
kay again, when you fire your machine guns, when you come near enemy
aircraft, balloons, Zepplins, or AA guns, and when you fly near the
ground.

IMPORTANT!
It's very difficult to stay in formation when time compression is active.
because of this, Red Baron will automatically enter Auto-formation when
time compression is activated. This will control your aircraft and keep it
locked into formation until time compression is de-activated.
Auto-formation will NOT activate when you are the flight leader unless you
are escorting another flight.

                            Starting Location

On some missions a menu will appear, giving you a choice of where to start
you flight. You may start near the action or near the aerodrome. For most
missions, it is recommended that you start near the action. The missions
will be shorter and more exciting. However, if you want to try your hand
at navigating as the WWI pilots did, begin the mission near your
aerodrome.

                               PREFERENCES:

There are two main panels that allow you to control game play, the
PREFERENCES panel and the REALISM panel. The displayed PREFERENCES panel
is available only from within the simulation. OPTIONS from the main menu
will bring up an abbreviated version which does not contain detail level
controls.

Preferences Panel
Press F10 from the simulation to activate. Press ACCEPT or the ESC key to
 exit.

With the Preferences panel you may tailor some of the tecnical aspects of
Red Baron to your tastes and computer configuration. You may customize the
following game controls:

  Joystick on/off
  Sound on/off
  Mouse on/off
  Time Scale Adjustment low-high
  Ground Detail Level Adjustment low-high
  Aircraft Detail Level Adjustment low-high
  Combat Button Regular/off

Note:  settings and adjustments made to the preferences and realism panels
are automatically saved to disk. The new settings remain even if you quit
and restart Red Baron later.

Detail Levels
The smoothness of simulation play is dependent upon two things: the speed
of your computer and the amount of graphic detail displayed. The first of
the two, the speed of your computer, cannot be changed. However, with
the graphic detail controls, you can reduce the amount of graphic detail
displayed. The detail sliders give you control over the amount of graphic
detail that your computer is required to display. You may trade off detail
for smoother animation according to your tastes. When you first install
Red Baron, it will set the detail slider's positions based upon the speed
of your computer.

There are three controls that allow you to select the amount of graphic
detail in the simulation. Depending on the speed of your computer, you may
want to increase or decrease the amount of graphic detail to control the
smoothness of play.

Aircraft detail controls how detailed the aircraft displayed will be.

Ground detail controls how many terrain features are displayed at once.

Combat button controls the amount of ground detail displayed during combat
sequences. When set to normal ground detail, the ground detail will remain
the same when you enter aerial combat. When set to no ground detail, the
ground detail will be cut back during combat. This will increase the
smoothness of animation during combat.

Time Scale
Time scale control is provided to help in cusomizing the pace of
simulation play to fit best fir your tastes. If battles are moving too
fast for you, move the Time Scale slider towards LOW. This will slow the
action down. If you're playing on a machine that runs slow even with the
detail levels turned down, try moving the Time Scale slider towards HIGH.
This will speed up the action.

Low = Slower and easier to control. High = faster and more difficult to
control but it is best for slower computers.

                              REALISM PANEL:

Press alt-r to access
Press accept or esc to ext
Press restore to cancel

You may change any of the realism settings from either the mission
assignment screen or from within the simulation itself. The settings allow
you to customize certain features of the game to your own tastes. IN most
cases, each setting gives you a choice between ease of use and realism.

There are 11 settings you may switch from realistic to nonrealistic. When
a setting is set to realistic, a red check mark appears beside it.
Pressing the button for the setting will switch it between available
states. For convenience, we've included three buttons at the top of the
realism panel to allow you to change all the settings at once. Each has
default settings for different skill levels including Novice,
Intermediate, and Expert. Following are descriptions of realism settings
available.

Realistic Instruments. When turned on, the only instruments seen from the
cockpit will be the ones that existed on the original WWI aircraft. When
turned off, all possible instruments are displayed.

Sun Blind Spot. When turned on, the Sun Blind Spot will cause a glare
whenever you view is placed directly at the sun. Enemy aircraft which are
in the sun will not be visible until they are very close.

Realistic Weather. If turned on, the weather conditions will vary from
mission to mission. If turned off, the weather will always be perfect: the
sky will be clear with no clouds, and there will be a light wind.

Gun Jams Allowed. The machine guns in WWI were very unreliable and would
jam frequently. The longer the gun was fired, the greater the chance that
it would jam. Pilots would often carry a hammer or mallet with which to
hit their machine guns in case of jamming. When Gun Jams Allowed is turned
off, your machine guns will operate perfectly, never jamming.

Blackouts Allowed. The pilots of WWI didn't have oxygen masks, and
consequently a pilot who flew above 20,000 feet for too long would get
dizzy and occaisonally even black out from lack of oxygen. Hopefully, when
the pilot's aircraft went into a dive, the pilot would wake up before
hitting the ground. When Blackouts Allowed is turned on, blackouts are
possible. When turned off, blackouts will never occur.

Carburetor Freezes. At high altitudes, it gets very cold. The carburetor
would often freeze, especially during the winter months. This would cause
a complete loss of power until the carburetor would thaw out, which could
only come about if the aircraft was brought to a much lower altitude. When
Carburetor Freezing is turned on, your plane's carburetor will freeze at
higher altitudes. When turned off, the carburetor will never freeze.

Limited Ammunition. The great pilots would fire their guns sparingly,
closing to within 30 yards and firing a short, decisive burst. This takes
skill, but it can be mastered. If Limited Ammo is turned on, your ammo
supply will be limited. If turned off, you can spray the sky with bullets
for as long as you like, assuming that you guns don't jam.

Limited Fuel. Most of the aircraft had enough fuel to fly for two and a
half hours. When limited fuel is turned on, your air time will be limited
to your plane's fuel capacity. when limited fuel is turned off, your fuel
supply will be indefinate.

                              REALISM PANEL:

Real Navigation. When Real Navigation is turned on, you will fly as WWI
pilots did...without sector coordinates displayed.You will have to
navigate with the map, and by viewing natural landmarks on the ground
below. When turned off, your sector coordinates will be displayed on the
screen. This is useful whn you are acquainting yourself with navigation.

Aircraft May Be Damaged. When Aircraft May Be Damaged is turned on, your
aircraft will be susceptible ti damage. When turned off, your aircraft
will become invulnerable. We recommend the off setting for beginning red
Baron players only. Your score will be very low if this is turned off.

Flight Model. Flight Model allows you to select the level of realism your
airplane can handle. The settings are: Novice, Intermediate, and Expert.
Novice is the easiest to use, and expert is for experienced pilots.
      Novice setting: flying is easy, turns are straight forward. If you
      bank the aircraft, it will turn. Your aircraft will not nose down
      in a turn.

      Intermediate setting: turning is modelled more realistically. In
      order to turn properly, you will have to apply back pressure
      (pulling back on the stick) to keep the aircraft turning and keep
      the nose above the horizon. Some rudder may be needed as well.
      Unlike Novice, if you bank the aircraft without using back pressure,
      your turn will degenerate into a slow spiral dive. Landing is also
      more difficult.

      Expert setting: this will test all of your flying abilities. Not
      only are turns modelled realistically, but the danger of going into
      a spin is present. The various quirks of certain aircraft are also
      included. For instance, the gyroscopic effect of the Sopwith Camel's
      rotary engine will make a simple turn a difficult, tricky maneuver.
      And, if too much stress is put on your aircraft's wings during a
      high speed dive, your wings may break!

Score Factor:
Mission success, promotions and your placement on the high score listing
are all based upon your scoring, or point total, at the end of a mission.
There are two main factors in determining your score after a mission; your
performance and the score factor. Scoring for mission performance is based
upon how well you achieved the goals of the mission, how valiant your
moves were and whether you survived the mission intact. Your overall score
for the mission is derived by multiplying your mission score by the score
factor. The score factor is displayed at the bottom, center of the realism
panel under the overall difficulty heading. It reflects the difficulty of
the current realism settings. Increasing the number of realistic setting
on the realism panel will increase your score factor.

Important! Once you enter the simulation, a 30 second "grace" period
begins. Any changes to the realism settings must be made before this
period is up in order for the chagnes to be reflected in the score factor.
Settings turned on after the first 30 seconds of simulation play will be
displayed in lightened text to reflect that they were changed after the
"grace" period and have no bearing on the score factor.

                                 WEATHER:

From the realism panel you may turn on and off realistic weather. With it
turned off, there will be no clouds in the sky and there will be a light
wind blowing eastward.

The wind will play an important part in your missions. Generally the wind
gives German pilots an advantage as it usually blows toward the German
side. This makes it difficult for Allied pilots to fly home when they are
over German territory. The stronger the wind, the more advantage German
pilots will have.

Clouds will add to the complexity of the combat tactics. Diving into a
cloud is a good way to lose a pursuer. On the other hand, clouds may be
hiding enemy aircraft waiting to strike. Clouds may also obstruct the sun,
thus taking away the ability to dive out of the sun on an enemy.

                            YOUR FLIGHT GROUP:

The group of 1 to 4 aircraft that you fly with is called a flight. Your
flight will travel together and protect one another.

Formations
When a flight goes on a mission, it will fly in formation. If you are the
flight leader, the rest of your flight will fall into formation. The types
of formations that you may fly include: solo, line, abreast, line astearn,
vee, box, echelon, and diamond.

If you are not the flight leader, fly with the rest the formation. Do not
stray from the rest of your flight.

Flight Leader Commands
Once airborne, WWI pilots would communicate with arm gestures. As a member
of a formation, you will be given orders by your flight leader during the
mission. These will be indicated as a text message that appears on your
screen.

If you are the flight leader, you will have the opportunity to give orders
to the members of your flight. However, keep in  mind that once you enter
combat your commands will go unnoticed--the rest of the flight will be
busy keeping their eyes on the enemy. If there are three or more aircraft
in your flight, some aircraft will make up the "minor wing". The flight
leader may give orders to the minor wing separately from the rest of the
flight. With three aircraft, the third aircraft in the formation makes up
the minor wing. With four aircraft, the third and fourth make up the minor
wing.

Flight leader Commands

Drop Below
Key Command: D
Order the minor wing to drop about 500 feet below the rest of the fligh.
This tactic can be used to flush out enemy aircraft. enemy aircraft will
often attack the seemingly helpless aircraft of the minor wing, unaware of
the aircraft above them. When they do so, the aircraft above may swoop
down on the enemy. Be warned that this tactic leaves the minor wing
exposed. This order will be ignored if the flight is at low altitude.

Join
Key Command: J
Order the minor wing to rejon the rest of the flight. If the flight
descends to a low altitude, then the minor wing will automatically rejoin
the rest of the flight.

Attack!
Key Command: A
Order the entire flight to attack the enemy.

Minor Wing Attack!
Key Command:  M
Order the minor wing to attack the enemy.

Warning!
key Command: W
Alert the rest of the flight that enemy aircraft have been spotted. If
you issue this warning when there are no enemy aircraft around, the rest
of the flight will ignore your warnings for the rest of the mission. You
may issue a warning even when you are not the flight leader.

                           SIMULATION OVERVIEW:

Red Baron has two play options, Fly Single Mission and Career. Single
Mission offers you the choice of ten randomly generated mission types and
allows you to custom tailor your squadron and the conditions of play.
Career allows you to enlist as an officer of either the German Air Service
or the Royal Flying Corps. You will fly multiple mission, progressing
through the war until you are either killed, grounded, or the war ends. In
career play, you are given much less control over the mission conditions.
You must earn the right to a command, transfer and change plane types.

Missions in both Fly Single Mission and Career can be recorded and saved
to disk. These saved missions, or tapes, can then be replayed with the
Mission Recorder. You can record, save, playback and manipulate any of
your missions. You can even re-enter a saved mission, completely altering
the mission's outcome. Altered missions can then be saved to disk for
later viewing or manipulation.

On the following pages, you will find in depth descriptions of Single
Mission, Career, and Mission Record.

FLY SINGLE MISSION

The first of the two options of simulation play is Fly Single Mission.
Single Mission play allows you to tailor many elements of your mission:
the type of mission you'll go on, on whose side you'll fly, the conditions
you'll encounter, who you fly with (and against), and the type of plane
used. Fly Single Mission is the quickest way to get into the simulation.
You simply select the type of mission you want to fly, set the conditions,
and play! After your custom mission is completed, you'll receive an
evaluation of your performance and a score based upon the realism
settings, goals achieved and number of kills.

Mission Types
When Fly Single Mission is chosen from the main menu, a new menu will
appear displaying the types of missions available.

Fly a Historic Mission
Relive the great aerial battles of the war

Dogfight a Famous Ace
Have you got what it takes to go head-to-head with the might Red Baron
himself? Find out as you go up against the war's greatest pilots.

Dogfight a Squadron
Engage and enemny flight of fighters and try to clear them out of the sky.
Just remember that they're trying to do the same to your flight.

Patrol the Front
Patrol the front and engage any enemy recon or fighter planes that you
come across.

Escort a Bombing Raid
Your bombers are about to penetrate deep into enemy territory to bomb
strategic targets like RR yards, factories, and supply dumps. It's your
mission to see that they succeed.

Stop a Bombing Raid
Intercept enemy bombers who are trying to bomb your side.

Hunt a Zepplin
Locate one of these high flying dirigibles and send it down in flames.
It's best to use incendiary ammo.

Escort Recon
Protect a recon plane on its mission to take aerial photos. Enemy fighters
will be gunning for both the recon plane and you.

Balloon Defense
Protect your observation balloons from the enemy!

Balloon Busting
Take out the eye's of the enemy. These large gasbags of hydrogen burn
easily. It's best to use incendiary ammo.

Fly Single Mission Conditions
Once a Mission type has been chosen, you will be able to tailor the
conditions of the mission. The number and type of conditions available for
change vary from mission to mission. Following is a breakdown of mission
types and their available options.

Dogfight a Famous Ace
After selecting Dogfight a Famous Ace, you will be asked to select the ace
which you wish to dogfight. Pressing the up and down arrows will scrolling
through the selection window. As each ace is highlighted, a description
will be displayed showing the ace's name, alliance, total credited
victories in the war, and a description of their known tactics. pressing
the select button will accept the currently highlighted ace.

Once an ace has been selected, the mission setup screen will be displayed.
The misison setup screen will display the name of the mission type and a
text area in which you may setup your mission. In the text area,
changeable options are displayed as a button in the text. Clicking on one
will bring up a menu with your possible options. All buttons except those
on the pop up menu will be inactive when a pop up menu is diplayed.

The following options are available under Dogfight a Famous Ace. Press the
accept button when you've set the conditions to the desired settings.

Your Aircraft Type: you may select any anircraft from either side of the
war.

The Ace's Aircraft Type: the selected ace will default to his preferred
aircraft, including any historical markings and insignias. You may choose
any type for the selected ace.

Where You Will Battle: you can choose from over the front, over German
territory, and over Allied territory. It is an advantage to meet over your
own territory as it's easier to land.

Altitude: it's an advantage to start higher than your opponent. This
allows you to decide when combat begins. If you want more of a challenge,
start at a lower altitude than your opponent.

Sun: you may choose the positioning of the sun at the start of combat.
Your choices are at no one's back, at your back, and at his back. The
pilot who starts with the sun at his back has an advantage, being able to
hide in the sun's glare.

Wind and Sky: you may set the weather conditions.
      Wind: still, light, strong
      Sky: clear, partly cloudy, cloudy, overcast.

Dogfight a Squadron
The Dogfight a Squadron mission is similar to Dogfight a Famous Ace,
except that you may also select:

The side that you will fight for: you may select German Air Service or
Royal Flying Corps.

The number of aircraft in your flight group.

The type of ammo used: you may select between regular and incendiary. In a
dogfight, it is assumed that regular ammo will be used. This can be
changed in the Flight Assignments screen.

The type of aircraft your flight group will use: you will only be able to
select aircraft available to your selected alliance.

The formation your flight group will fly in: depending upon the number of
aircraft in your flight group, you may choose between line abreast, line
astern, echelon, vee wing, diamond, and box formation.

The number of aircraft in your opponent's flight group.

The type of aircraft your enemy's flight group will use: you will only be
able to select aircraft available to the enemy's alliance.

The quality of your pilots: Novice, Regular, or Veteran (see below).

The quality of the enemy pilots: Novice, Regular, or Vetern (see below).

The leader of the enemy pilots: this may be any of the famous aces or an
anonymous pilot of any quality.

Pilot Quality:
Novice-just out of flight training. They are the poorest pilots, prone to
be paralyzed in combat. They often take impossible shots. A novice will
never use a maneuver in combat. They are the guys with a one in ten
chance of surviving their first dogfight.
Regular-Pilot with combat experience. He doesn't make stupid mistakes in
combat, but does nothing brilliant either. Will occaisonally do some of
the simple maneuvers: Zoom climbs, wing-overs, and barrel rolls.
Veteran-a good pilot that flies and fights intelligently. He is skilled at
many maneuvers and will pose a serious challenge to even the best of
opponents.

FLY AN HISTORIC MISSION
From Fly an Historic Mission, you can choose to fly a famous historical
air battle. All conditions of this single mission are preset to match the
actual historic event.

Once selecting Fly Historic Mission, you will be asked to select the
historic mission you wish to participate in. Pressing the up and down
arrows will scroll through the selection window. As each Historical
Mission is highlighted, text will be displayed describing the mission. In
the upper right corner of the screen a picture of the famous ace featured
in the mission will be shown.

Below the selection window are buttons marked British and German. These
allow you to decide which side you wish to fly for in the mission. If you
choose the side that the featured ace flew on, you will take his place in
the mission. Choosing the other side will pit you against the featured
ace. The text description of the mission will change to reflect your
mission, depending upon which side you choose to fly on.

Pressing Begin will start the mission.

ALL OTHER MISSION TYPES
This selection describes the conditions available for all missions other
than Dogfight a Famous Ace and Dogfight a Squadron.

The side that you will fight for: you may select German Air Service or
Royal Flying Corps.

The number of aircraft in your flight group: you may select up to four
aircraft.

The type of aircraft in your flight group: you will only be able to select
aircraft available to your selected alliance.

The type of ammo used: you may select between regular and incendiary.

The formation of your flight group: depending upon the number of aircraft
in your flight group, you may choose any of the same fucking formations
that I have already typed three times! (or was it two?)

Time: you may select between daytime, dawn, dusk, and night.

Wind and Sky: as above.

pressing accept will take you to the Mission Assignment screen.

                      THE MISSION ASSIGNMENT SCREEN:

For all missions except Dogfight a Famous Ace, you will recieve all data
regarding your upcoming mission from the Mission Assignment screen. From
the Mission Assignment screen, you will receive the following information:

The date: the date of the current mission.

Map reference: there are 5 off line maps (I DON'T HAVE THEM!!!) used for
navigation in Red Baron. Each mission will require you to use a specific
map. The name of the map needed is listed below the date.

Situation: supplies you with any information available on your current
mission. This will include your orders and any specific goal that you are
to achieve.

Mission Plan: the mission plan lists the recommended sequence to carry out
your mission. This includes necessary map co-ordinates of your starting
point, your flight path, and where to engage enemies.

If you are following a flight leader, he will follow the mission plan
exactly as specified. However, if you are the flight leader, you may come
up with your own mission plan.

Weather: gives you a description of the weather conditions in the area
where you mission will be carried out.

Time: describes the time of day when the mission begins.

Buttons: Flight Assignments goes to the Flight Assignments screen. Begin
Mission will start your mission. Cancel returns you to the main menu.

                      THE FLIGHT ASSIGNMENT SCREEN:

Available from within the Mission Assignment screen, the Flight Assignemnt
screen gives you a complete breakdown of the settings in your flight
group. You can change settings for formation, total aircraft in flight,
your aircraft and ammo. Along with the graphical representation of your
currently selected formation, you will receive a listing of the position
for all pilots in your flight. This will indicate the flight leader (this
will always be you in Fly Single Mission) as well as the skill levels of
the other pilots. The pilots, and their skill levels, that are assigned to
fly with you are based upon the historical context and random generation
of the mission you are flying. This will change with each mission you fly.
You may also find that you are sometimes assigned an ace to fly as part of
your flight group. This is dependent upon the mission type, the time that
it occurs and the known locations of the individual aces at the time.

Pressing Begin Mission will enter the simulation.

Pressing Realism Panel will bring up the realism panel.

Pressing Mission Assignment will take you back to the Mission Assignment
screen.

                               NAVIGATION:

Once you have your orders, you'll be required to navigate your way through
the world. You will be required to find an enemy on many missions, and to
find your way back to your own aerodrome. To navigate, you will use one of
the 5 maps supplied with Red Baron. Use the compass to fly on your desired
heading. To locate yourself on the map, watch the natural landmarks below.

On the realism panel, you may turn realistic naviagtion off. When off, the
current sector you are in is displayed on the screen. This will make
navigation much simpler because you will always know where you are.

How to Fly to a Desired Location
On some missions you will start in the air near the enemy. On these
missions, you will not be required to navigate to find the enemy aircraft.
They will be within visual range. On escort missions, you will not need to
navigate (unless the aircraft you are escorting are shot down, and you
must find your way back to your home aerodrome). You will only need to
follow the aircraft that you are escorting.

However, on some missions you will start out on the ground at your
aerodrome and will be required to fly to a specified sector to find the
enemy. On these missions, the Mission Assignment screen will tell you on
what heading you must fly in order to reach the sector. It will also tell
you how far away your destination is.

The abbreviations NNE, ENE, ESE, SSE, SSW, WSW, WNW, and NNW do not appear
on your compass. You may still fly in these directions. For example, if
your mission plan instructs you to fly NNE, then line up you aircraft so
that the compass heading is halfway between N and NE. As you make your way
through the sector, you should keep an eye on the map and watch natural
landmarks below. These serve as checkpoints to let you know you're going
in the right direction and are not off course.

You need not always fly just by compass. Sometimes it's easier to fly by
following a river, a road, or a rail-line.

If you get lost, the first thing you should try to do  is to try to
determine your present location by looking at the ground below and
matching up the landmarks against the map. Large, obvious bends in rivers,
bends in the front, as well as landmarks like cities and aerodromes can be
used to place your location on the map.

If you still can't determine your location, find the front (which is
generally easy), and fly to your side of the lines. Land at the first
friendly aerodrome that you find. As a last resort, you may land in a
field on your side of the lines.

                           ENDING THE MISSION:

QUITTING
You may quit at any time during your mission as long as your aircraft is
not fatally damaged and you are not near an enemy. However, you will
receive more points for landing at your aerodrome. When your mission is
complete, a message will be displayed asking you if you want to quit. You
may quit without penalty, however, IF YOU QUIT BEFORE THE MISSION IS
COMPLETE, YOU'LL LEAVE ANY FRIENDLY AIRCRAFT AND BALLOONS AT RISK!

ENDINGS
If you crash, you may either walk away with no injuries, end up in a
hospital, or be killed, depending upon the severity of the crash. If you
are hospitalized, you will remain there until you recover from your
injuries. If you land or crash (and survive) in enemy territory, you may
end up in an enemy prisoner of war camp.

MISSION REVIEW
Following every mission will be the Mission Review screen. On it you will
see:
-A text description with the results of your mission.
-Your mission score.
-How many aircraft from your flight were lost.
-How many victories (aircraft, balloons, and Zepplins) that you shot down
 personally, and how many your squadron shot down.

SCORING
Scoring in Red Baron is based upon a number of different factors:
-Successful completion of your mission.
-Points for shooting down enemy aircraft and balloons. Zepplins are worth
 a lot of points.
-Lose points for aircraft in your flight that are shot down.
-Bonus points for landing at your own aerodrome upon completion of your
 mission.
-Your score is multiplied by the score factor, specified in the realism
 panel.

In any of the missions available under Fly Single Mission, your score will
determine your standing in the Best Missions listing. In Career mode, your
score has a great impact upon your ability to advance in rank.

BOARD OF INQUIRY
If you screw up and shoot down a friendly aircraft during your mission,
you'll come before the board of inquiry.

Going before the Board of Inquiry during Fly Single Mission will be
reflected in your score. In Career mode, the penalties are much more
severe. While playing a career, the third visit to the Board will result
in stripping of your wings and permanent grounding.

                               CAREER PLAY:

The most challenging game play option is to fly an entire career as either
a German pilot or a British pilot. You will enlist in either the Royal
Flying Corps or the German Air Service as a fighter pilot. Your career
will start in Dec 1915, carry you through the Fokker Scourge when
Eindeckers ruled the skies, and through the end of the war on Nov 10,
1918.

As your career progresses, you'll see the advantage swing back and forth
between the German and Allied pilots as new aircraft are introduced. You
will have a chance to fly during Bloody April of 1917 when the Albatross
D.III swept the allies from the air, and in the summer of 1917 to see the
allies regain the advantage with the S.E. 5 and the Sopwith Camel.

As a fighter pilot, you will fly many different missions, including
attacks against balloons, Zepplins, and recon aircraft. You'll also escort
missions of bombers and recon planes and dogfight against enemy fighters.
Your total victories will increase when you shoot down enemy balloons,
Zepelins, and airplanes.

Of course you greatest challenges will come when you face off against the
famous aces like Mick Mannock, Rene Fock, and Rittmeister Richtofen. These
aces are extremely good and they are trying to add you to their total
victories.

As your victories mount, you will receive promotions in rank. As a British
pilot you will start out as a 2nd Lietenant, and may be promoted to 1st
Lieutenant and finally Captain. As a German flyer, you will start with the
rank of Leutnant, and may be promoted to Oberleutnant, and finally
Rittmeister. With greater rank comes more privileges.

As a 1st Lietenant (or Oberleutnant), you will become a flight leader.
When you start your career, you will not be the flight leader and will
have to obey your flight leader's orders and follow him in formation. As a
flight leader, your flight will follow you and your orders. However, your
flight will size will be small: only you and one other fighter.

When you are promoted to Captain, you will be given command of flights of
up to four aircraft. You will also be given a personal aircraft of your
own choice, which you may paint.

As your reputation grows, you will have a chance to fly with better
squadrons. If you are extremely successful, you'll receive invitations
from the most elite squadrons of the war, including the Storks or the
Jagdgeschwader.

You will be awarded medals in recognition of your bravery and gallantry.
As an allied pilot, the most prestigious award to try for is the Victoria
Cross. As a German, you will try to attain the order for Merit, or "Blue
Max". even more difficult to attain is the Red Eagle Order, only awarded
to Richtofen.

When you finish your career by surviving to the end of the war, your final
standing will be displayed. You could end up as a respected ace or as a
crop duster. The ultimate challenge is to end the war with more victories
than the historic totals of the famous aces. If you do this, you'll be the
war's "Ace of Ace's". The highest scoring allied ace was the Frenchman
Rene Fonck with 75 kills and the highest German was the Red Baron with 80
kills.

                               CAREER MENU:

START A CAREER
You will be asked to select your alliance and to enter the name of your
pilot. The career roster will track 15 pilot careers at once. If it is
full, you will be asked to delete another pilot from the roster or to
cancel.

Once you've chosen you alliance and your name, you'll be presented with a
synopsis. You may change at what time during the war you will start.
options: early, middle, and late. You may also change your alliance or
your name. Press accept to being your career. Good fucking luck!

CONTINUE A CAREER
Select which pilot you wish to continue with. Pressing view while a pilot
is selected will display the pilot's record.

VIEW TOP ACES
Displays the top ten career perfomances to date, ordered by number of
victories. Pressing view while a top ace is selected will display their
pilot record.

RETURN TO MAIN
Cancels the career menu, returning to the main menu.

                             AERODROME MENU:

All career play is based from the aerodrome menu. Between missions, you
will return to the aerodrome menu. From this point you will make the
decisions that will direct your career.

FLY NEXT MISSION
Pressing the Fly Next Mission, you will be given your next assignment and
will fly the mission. These activities are described in the Fly Single
Mission section. If you end up in the hospital or prison, time that could
be used to score victories will be lost. You can lose up to six months if
you are hospitalized or jailed.

Career mode has a few options that are not available in Fly Single
Mission. The first is that you may receive medals for your performane.
Along with honors, you will also be held responsible for your errors. You
may come before the Board after a mission if you've committed some error.
The first time you come before the Board, you'll be given a mild
reprimand. If you commit the same offense a second time, you'll be
reprimanded strongly. And if you commit the same offense three times, the
board will strip you wings and you'll be grounded forever!

SQUADRON INFO
Pressing Squadron Info will show you your current station, the date and
the famous aces flying with the squadron.

MAP OF THE FRONT
Shows the Western Front and the location of the primary Aerodromes. You
may highlight each earodrome by pressing the left or right arrows located
on the center, right hand side of the screen. Highlighting an aerodrome
will display its name and list any squadrons or aces stationed there at
the current time.

REQUEST TRANSFER
You may transfer to squadrons stationed at other aerodromes. This will
give you an opportunity to fly with other aces in different regoins of the
front. You'll also be able to face off against different enemy aces on
your missions depending on which region your in. As you progress in rank
you'll have the opportunity to transfer to better squadrons.

When you transfer, the map of the western front will be displayed, and it
will show you where your new squadron is stationed. Once transferred,
you'll have to remain at your new aerodrome for at least four months
before transferring again.

PERSONAL AIRCRAFT
After reaching the rank of Captain or Rittmeister, you will be given the
use of a personal aircraft. On the Personal Aircraft screen you may view
your plane, request a new aircraft and paint your plane. The arrow keys on
the bottom left of the screen allow you to change the view of your
aircraft. You can zoom the camera in/out and rotate it left/right.

Press Paint Aircraft will bring up the painting menu. You may paint two
sections of your aircraft: wings and fuselage. Select which part of your
plane you wish to paint and then the color you wish to paint it.

Pressing Request new Aircraft will bring up the Select Aircraft screen.
Your choices of aircraft will be dependent upon the side you are flying on
and the progression of the war. As time progresses and the design
improves, you will be allowed chose more sophisticated craft.
Note: you must use your current aircraft for at least three months before
requesting another!

Press Continue to go back to the Aerodrome menu.

VIEW PILOT RECORD
Pressing  View Pilot Record will display the current record for your
pilot. It will display the name and rank of the pilot, what squadron he is
assigned to, which aerodrome he's stationed at and which aircraft he's
flying. In addition, it will display his total kills. Also displayed is
the career score, which is the accumulation of all mission scores, and all
medals that have been received.

BACKUP CAREER
If you have a pilot who is doing very well, you may want to backup his
status in case he's shot down. After pressing Backup Career, enter the
name under which you wish to backup the career. If the career roster is
full, you will be prompted to delete another pilot or to cancel. This
backup career may be restored from the Continue a Career option in the
Career Menu.
Note: a pilot's most current career progress is automatically saved upon
exiting the aerodrome menu. Backup Career is used to save a serarate
version of the current career for later restoring. This is useful for
undoing a mistake you've made in a mission. If you die or perform that
damages your career, you will have the option restoring the backup career
and replaying the mission until you are satisfied with the outcome.

RETURN TO MAIN
Pressing Return to Main will save your current pilot status and return to
the main menu. You may later restore this career by pressing Continue a
Career from the career menu and selecting the pilot on the career roster.

                            CAREER SEQUENCES:

There are numerous sequences that can occur between missions while playing
in career mode. You may be promoted, alerted to a new aircraft, moved to
new aerodromes, transferred to another squadron or challenged by a famous
ace.

RANK PROMOTIONS
As your score increases, you will be promoted in rank. This was all
explained before so go read it!

NEW AIRCRAFT INTRODUCTIONS
As new aircraft are introduced, you will be notified. If you have the rank
of Captain, you will be given a chance to exchange your current plane for
the new one.

MOVING TO NEW AERODROMES
From time to time, your squadron may be ordered to move to a different
part of the front. You will be informed of your new station and aerodrome.

SQUADRON TRANSFERS
In addition to being able to transfer from the Aerodrome menu, you may
receive special invitations to transfer. Some of the invitations will be
for a temporary transfer and some will be for an indefinate period. If you
are transferred for a temporary tour of duty, you'll be transferred to
your official sqaudron when the tour is up.

CHALLENGES BY FAMOUS ACES
Occaisonally, famous aces would issue challenges to enemy aces. If you're
doing exceptionally well, you may receive a challenge by a famous ace to
meet at a certain place, at a specified time and altitude to dogfight. You
may choose to ignore these challenges.

END OF CAREER
Your career will end with either your pilot being killed in action or
surviving to the end of the war (Nov. 10, 1918). If your pilot survives to
the end of the war, his final standing in history will be displayed.

                             MISSION RECORD:

Perhaps one of the most exciting elements of Red Baron is th Mission
Record feature (joy!). With the mission recorder, you can record an entire
mission, save it to disk and then replay the saved mission. However, the
ability to save and replay a mission isn't what makes this feature so
unique. Mission Record will also allow you to change the saved mission.
You can alter the views, watch the action from nearly any angle and enter
the simulation again from any point in playback. The changes you make can
then be saved, played back and modified even further. You essentially
become actor, producer, and director of your own WWI aerial dogfights. To
help spread the news of your talent, you can copy the recorded missions to
floppy disk or transfer them by modem to your friends who have Red Baron.
They can load the files and admire your handiwork first hand.

LIGHTS, CAMERA, ACTION!
The first step in using the Mission Record feature is to tell the game to
record your missions as you play them. Each time you enter the simulation,
Red Baron will ask you if you wish to record the mission. Saying yes will
automatically start the mission record feature. It operates silently and
patiently in the background while you storm the skies. When your mission
is over, you will be asked to name and save the recorded mission.

-Naming the file and pressing Save will automatically save the mission in
 a sub-directory called TAPES.
-Pressing Cancel will abort the mission save, erasing the recorded mission
 and exiting the simulation.

IMPORTANT! THE MISSION NAME THAT YOU CHOOSE CAN BE NO LONGER THAN 8
CHARACTERS. If you type a name longer than 8 characters, the computer will
cut off the additional characters, saving only the first 8.

INTO THE EDITING ROOM
Once you have recorded and saved a mission, select Mission Recorder from
the main menu. This will activate the playback mode of Red Baron. You will
be shown a menu of all saved missions. Select the mission tape you wish to
playback and press Load. The tape will load and the Mission Record control
panel will be displayed.

  (was a gfx of the panel here, but I can't do it in ansi so you get to
   figure it out for yourself!)

MISSION PLAYBACK WINDOW
The Mission Playback Window is where playback of your loaded missions is
displayed. It will playback the loaded mission exactly as you originally
played it. The playback window has two modes of display, Edit and Full
Screen.

EDIT displays the Mission Playback Window with the Mission Record
controls covering the bottom half of the screen. Use this mode to edit and
view.

FULL SCREEN displays the Mission Playback Window without the Mission
Record controls. You will see a full screen image of your mission as it
plays. Use this mode for viewing only.

TO SWITCH BETWEEN EDIT AND FULL SCREEN MODES, PRESS THE ESC KEY.

PLAYBACK CONTROLS
(|<<  box  >  >>|)
The playback controls operate like any VCR. You can fast-forward, rewind,
stop, and play. It should be noted that while you can fast-forward
incrementally, rewind will only rewind the tape to the beginning. You
cannot partially rewind a tape (THAT'S LAME!).

LOCATION COUNTER
(box with numbers in it)
Operating just like a VCR counter, the Location Counter keeps a running
mark of your playback position.

LOCATION SLIDER
(line with a button somewhere on it)
The location slider works in two ways.

  It will act as a visual marker to display movement through the playing
  tape.
  It will act as a visual fast-forward slider, allowing you to pick the
  location to fast-forward to.

To use the location slider to fast-forward, move the slider bar to the
desired distance into the tape. When you release the slider bar, the
Mission Recorder will display an on-screen countdown as it fast-forwards
to the specified point. NOTE: the slider cannot be moved backwards. You
must use the rewind command.

ACTIVE CAMERA CONTROLS
The Active Camera Controls allow you to change the location of the
playback camera.

  Under the YOURS section, you can move the camera between your cockpit
  and your plane's external view.
  Under the OTHERS section, you can move the camera between other plane's
  external views and an independent world camera.

The options of SWITCH and INDEPENDENT become active when you have switched
you camera viewpoint to EXTERNAL. Continually pressing SWITCH will cycle
you through all the external views of all enemy aircraft in the recorded
mission. Pressing INDEPENDENT will place the camera free from all aircraft
movement to be completely controlled by the Movement Controls.

CAMERA MOVEMENT CONTROLS
Once the Active Camera has been chosen, the viewpoint can be fine tuned by
using the Camera Movement Controls. The two arrow pads operate slightly
differently depending upon where your Active Camera is positioned.

ACTIVE CAMERA INSIDE YOUR COCKPIT
COCKPIT allows you to look out the forward, left, right, and back cockpit
views. EXTERNAL allows you to switch to forward, left, right, and back
outside views of your plane.

ACTIVE CAMERA OUTSIDE YOUR COCKPIT
MOVE allows you to zoom the camera in/out. IN INDEPENDENT mode, it also
shifts the camera left and right. ROTATE allows you to rotate the camera
over, under, and around.

TAPES
Pressing the Tapes button will bring up the tapes control panel.
MODE: switches between Director and View Only modes.
LOAD NEW TAPE: brings up the tape menu for loading tapes.
SAVE CURRENT TAPE: brings up the tape menu for saving tapes.
DELETE TAPES: bring up the tape menu, allowing you to delete recorded
missions. Selecting a mission and pressing Delete will delete the mission
from the VCR subdirectory.
DONE: closes the tapes control panel.

MODE
The Mission Recorder has two modes of operation, Director and View Only.
Director mode enables the "save changes" option of playback. While in
director mode, all changes made during playback will be stored in memory.
Upon rewinding, loading a new tape, or quitting, the Mission Recorder will
display a prompt asking if you wish to save the changes made to the
original tape. View Only mode disables the "save changes" option.

ENTER SIMULATION
Pressing the Enter Simulation button at any point in during playback will
place you back into the simulation. You can replay the mission, making
whatever changes you desire. When the mission is over, you will be
presented with the options of seeing a Mission Review based upon the
changes made or returning to the Mission Recorder. IMPORTANT: changes made
after entering the simulation will not be saved if you are operating in
View Only mode.

EXIT
  Quits the Mission Recorder, returning you to the Main Menu. If you are
  operating in Director mode and have made changes that haven't been saved,
  you will be asked to save or discard your modifications.
