                                CODE-NAME: ICEMAN

Typed by THE RINGWRAITH.  Edited by PARASITE.


BOARDING PROTOCOL:
Salute Flag - When standing on the gangway, prior to steping on board, face
 aft and 'salute the flag'.

Salute Officer of the Deck - After the above, turn and face the Officer of
 the deck, salute and 'request permission to come aboard'.

Presenting orders - After the above, the Officer of the Deck will inspect
 your orders and grant you permission to board.

THE EXECUTIVE OFFICER:
Duties and Responsibilities - The XO is the number one man under the Captain.
 His responsibilities are to provide leadership to all men under him while
 maintaining a feeling of good spirit.  The XO will take command of the ship
 during any absence of the Captain.  It shall be the responsibility of the XO
 to insure the operational status of his vessel by inspecting and cycling
 equipment in the following areas:

        1. Control room
        2. Machinery compartment
        3. Torpedo room
        4. Engine room

CONTROL ROOM:
Periscopes (Attack & Observation) - Use your periscopes to determine the exact
 location of an object on the surface.  The left and right arrow keys will
 adjust the heading of the scope.  When you have located an object, take note
 of its location.  Scopes should only be used at periscope depth (approx. 70').
 Severe damage may occur if the 'attack scope' is used at speeds in excess of
 5  knots.  Severe damage may also occur if the 'observation scope' is used at
 speeds in excess of 12 knots.

SONARMAN:
 The sonarman is situated in the control room next to the radioman and to
 the left of the control panel.  Contact with the sonarman and the
 radioman can be made by walking over to them and talking to them.

COMMUNICATIONS:
Coded messages:
 All messages recieved aboard the U.S.S. Blackhawk will be in coded
 format and shall be received through the radioman.

Decoding messages:
 Aboard the U.S.S. Blackhawk can be found a book entitled "US NAVAL
 INTELLIGENCE DECODING".  This book must be used in conjunction with
 your technical manual.  The word keys used for decoding can be found
 within the 'boxed shaded' areas.  The coded numbers represent page, line,
 and word.  All coded numbers are in the range 0-9.

CHARTS: (Located in the control room)
Course Plotting:
 Enlcosed within the packaging of this game is a foldout map.  Use
 this map for determining and plotting your course heading.

Coordinates:
 Using a straight edge, plot your course on the foldout map.  When it
 is necessary for the submarine to change from a direct course, make
 note of the latitude and longitude of the 'waypoint' (the point at
 which you'll change direction).  These are your coordinates.

 The initial overall course to be followed will be given to you using
 landmarks.  Using the foldout map and the landmarks as a guide,
 chart your 'way points' on the map and then enter them into the
 computerized charts table located in the control room.  You may also
 recieve information via radio, of other specific way points for
 rendezvous purposes.  Type: LOOK MAP to get a close up view.  The
 flashing point on the map represents your vessel at it's current
 location.

To begin entering way points Type: PLOT COURSE.

 When entering the way points, use the directional keys until the
 longitude and latitude that you have calculated on the foldout map
 are displayed.  Depress the [ENTER] key on your keyboard to enter
 the way point.  To change a waypoint already entered type: CHANGE
 POINT.  Repeat the above procedure until you have entered all your
 way points.  When entering the last way point depress the [ENTER]
 key twice.

THE CONTROL PANEL:
Map Display - Use to determine present location at all times.

Fire Control Panel - The fire control panel consists of four controls.
 From left to right their functions are as follows:

   A - Select Weapon (Use shift-F5 or mouse)  Target selection is
       fully automatic.

   B - Lock on Target (Use shift-F6 or mouse)

   C - 3-D Imaging Display (Use shift-F7 or mouse)

   D - FIRE (Use shift-F8 or mouse)

Sonar - There are two types of sonar used on the U.S.S. Blackhawk:

   Passive sonar - Listening for sound produced by other vessels,
    responsibilty of the sonarman.

   Active sonar - Sending out sound waves to detect underwater
    objects.  Size and distance can be measuered when an object has
    been detected.  Active sonar consists of Vertical and Ranging
    sonar, explained below.

Vertical Sonar - Vertical sonar determines the distance above and below
 your submarine to a solid object such as an iceberg or the ocean floor.
 The center point on the screen represents your vessel.  Each line on the
 screen represents 10 feet above or below the sub, When an object is
 present within 100 feet above or below your sub, the lines on your screen
 become highligted to indicate the distance of the object to your location.

Ranging Sonar - Ranging sonar indicates obstacles within a 100 yard radius
 around the sub.

Depth Gauge - Displays current depth.

Water Temperature Gauge - Displays the current water temp. in degrees celsius.

Time Clock - Displays the time.

Speed Indicator - Displays the speed in Knots.

RPM Indicator - Displays engine RPMs.

Stern Plane Indicator - Indicates the angle of inclination of the Stern Plane.

Dive Lever - Use this to change the ballast so that you can surface or dive.
 Use the up/down arrow keys or drag it with the mouse.

Engine Lever - Use this to change the running speed of your sub.  Change it
 with the +/- keys, or drag it with the mouse.

Silent Running On/Off - Use the shift-F4 key to turn this on or off.  When it
 is on it will help mask the noise of you sub.

Sonar On/Off - Use shift-F4 to turn the sonar on and off.

Wheel - This controls the direction of the sub.  Use the right and left arrow
 keys or drag on it with the mouse.

Closed Circuit Monitor on/off - This lets the navigator see junk in his path.
 Use the shift-F1 key to turn it on or off.

Fire Control Panel Activate Button - Use shift-F2 to lower the control panel
 for easy access.

Throttle Speed Indicator:

   A. Lights out     - Throttle stopped
   B. 1 light        - Throttle Slow
   C. 2 lights       - Throttle 1/3
   D. 3 Lights       - Throttle 2/3
   E. 4 Lights       - Throttle full
   F. All lights Red - Throttle reverse

Torpedo Room Missiles - Harpoon, Sting Ray, and Emerson Electric MK2
 Torpedo Decoy

CPR PROCEDURE:

1. Shake and shout to establish responsiveness.
2. Call for help.
3. Establish the airway.
4. Look, listen, and feel for breathing.
5. Give 2 breaths.
6. Repeat Step 5.
7. Check pulse.
8. Begin compressions.

End.
