
MYTH (System 3) SOLUTION


LEVEL 1

GREEK LEGENDS
Kill the harpies to get some fireballs and keep them for later.
Alternatively, use them to kill the skeletons and collect fireballs later.
Eventually a skeleton will give you a sword, so use it to cut down the
hanging skeleton up on the top right and follow it down to the ede of the
ledge below.
Kill a skeleton near the edge so that it falls into the fires of Hell, and
the Devil himself should appear.  Run back to the left and jump onto the
ledge above and wait for Old Nick - chances are he'll appear on the ledge
below and will rise into your line of fire when he's fired off a Trident.
When he does, hit him with a fireball, or two.
When he's dead, pick up the Trident and store it.  Run back up past where
the hanging skeleton hung and leap over onto the ledge next to the Chimera.
Now just stand there and throw the Trident at him.  Go through the cave,
dodging the skeletons and run through and out into the open and the ruins
of Ancient Greece.
The warriors aren't too hard to kill but the Nymph is tricky.  Watch her
beckoning hand and move forwards until she signals you to stop - fingers
crossed she'll give you extra energy.  If she doesn't, fireball her or hit
her with a sword (she turns into a snake if you get too near).  Once past,
go up to the Warrior Statue and use the sword on on its rear heel.  The
statue collapses and a shield is yours for the taking.  Select the shield
and the warriors kneel down, allowing you to go through to the Medusa's
lair.
For this screen you need the shield ready and a fair dose off energy for
the Hydra afterwards.  Leap the gaps and use the shield to deflect Medusa's
stony gaze.  Select the sword but DON'T ACTIVATE IT YET.  Wait for the
Medusa to stop, and jump the gap with the shield ready.  Swap to the sword
in mid-jump and seperate her foul head from her even fouler body.  Pick up
the head and leap across towards the Hydra.  Take out the top two Hydra's
heads using the Medusa's head, and fall down onto the ledge next to the
last head.  Stand on the far left of the ledge and keep firing.  The Hydra
goes up in smoke and you've conquored Ancient Greece!

LEVEL 2

NORSE LEGENDS
The flash of lightning is your only visual aid here as darkness descends on
the Norse Ship.  Kill the Vikings as quickly as possible as Thor launches a
lightning bolt at any slowcoaches.  Kill all the Vikings and the bird on
the bow of the ship flies along.  Kill it when it flies down and pick up
the ring it drops to teleport to the next level.
Now you're in the forest and the main problem is the mass of Golems
stomping towards you.  Kill them with the dagger - which can be obtained by
slaying the small spiked creature.  The daggers are great for killing
Golems but run out quickly enough.  Run along past the hole in the forest
where a blacksmith lies in wait: he'll pinch your sword and rework it into
a Magic Sword for later on.
While he's doing this you'll need to keep out of the way of the Golems, use
your daggers to keep them away.  Collect the sword when it appears and now
run along to the clearing where a lady is being burned at a stake.  Pick up
the firebrand and use it on the fire sprites (fire against fire?) - keep
away from the edges or they'll zoom in and pick you up to drain your
energy.  When they've all gone the woman is safe and replenishes your
energy.
Run along to the right killing the Golems until you arrive at the dragon.
Wait until its head is raised and run up to it and hack away at its neck
until a chunk is taken out of it.  Now run back and use the dagger to wedge
its neck (you did remember to keep some daggers in reserve, didn't you).
Now you can run past and onto the next screen.
Now things get tricky as you leap from platform to platform, ever nearer
Valhalla.  Jump from the very edge of small gaps to get on the next
platform.  If a Thor lookalike appears near you, jump up or down onto a
ledge to avoid his lightning; either that or kill him.
Kill the fire-breathing baby dragons before they spit, and collect the
daggers and energy they leave behind.  When you get to the first of the two
castle entrances, jump up onto the ledge above it and hack away a few times
at the eye.  Once done, jump down and kill the axe-throwing Viking that
emerges from the castle.  Now go up, jumping on the platforms up to the
left and then up to the right to the second castle entrance.  Kill the
viking here and you go through to Thor's domain.
To win Thor over just keep moving to avoid his bolts and the dragons on the
floor.  Leap up onto the left pedestal, leap to the right one and then to
the third pedestal, and finally onto Thor's throne.  Hack a few times at
him and Thor is now on your side.

LEVEL 3

EGYPTIAN LEGENDS
This is a very tricky level with no mercy shown inside the Pyramid.  Use
the sword to dispose of the snakes and run to the side of the pyramid,
jumping onto the near-invisible platforms (either work them out yourself or
look at the picture here)

 KEY                                _____________
----                             __|            |
  @= Door                     __|               |
---= Ledge                 __|    @b <--        |
  S= Start             ___|      ---       @c   |
<--= Head-dress    ___|           @a      ---   |
                 S |             ---      ---   |
                   |____________________________|

Go into Door (a) and work your way through past the axe, spike, the two
pressure-pad-activated traps, and the two spikes and pick up the blue eye
(no mean feat).  Run past the spikes just before they go into the ground
and you should get past; any sooner or later and you're dead.
Go back out and up to door (b).  Work your way past the spike, axe, spike,
axe, spike, axe, pressure-plate-activated spike, barrel, spike AND axe,
barrel, and snake toreach the trapdoor (phew!).  Go through to the second
corridor and go right (don't go left or you'll get killed).  Avoid the axe,
the three spikes, the barrel, the downward-pressure-plate-activated axe,
the two spikes, another pressure-plate-activated spike, and two final
spikes and FINALLY you're through to the inner sanctum.  Now things get
tough!!!
There is a hard way and an easy way to do this level.  The hard way is to
leave the blue eye back in Corridor A.  Kill the two Egyptians and pick up
the cross, use the cross and go to the flashing cross on the wall.  This
will build up your energy.  Go right into the first upper room.  Kill the
Egyptian holding the rod and pick up the head-dress.  Smash the large jar
and pick up the first Canopic jar. Drop down into the bottom chamber and go
left through the mummies, killing them with the head-dress.  Go to the end
of the corridor and smash the two large jars and pick up the second and
third Canopic jars.  Go right through the first set of mummies and over the
spikes, then through the second set ofmummies, smash the large jar, and
pick up the fourth Canopic jar.  Go back left through the mummies, over the
spikes, and up and out the way you came in.  Go right until you see the
cross on the wall and use the cross.  Put on the head-dress.  Run up to the
cross and fire at the Sphinx.  Pick up the grey object and jump onto the
high ledge, up into the second upper room, and out through the door.
Now the easy way (with the blue eye): kill the two Egyptians and pick up
the cross and use it to build up your energy.  Go right to the second cross
symbol on the wall, killing all Egyptians on the way.  Use the cross, put
the blue eye in the centre ready to use.  Run up to the flashing cross, use
the blue eye, and press fire.  Now a large beam kills the Sphinx and your
energy builds up.  Pick up the grey object, jump up to the second upper
room, and go out the door.  (You have no need to pick up the Canopic jars
as you are given them).

Put the Canopic jars on the ledge in the right order.  The order being:
bottom left = red
top left = silver
top right = blue
bottom right = gold

Now go right and, when the last door on the coffin has shut, you can enter
the right-hand side of the room.  Run up to the face-mask and wait a
moment.  It will fire a beam of light at the coffin.  You will spin in a
ball of flame, then you can fly.  Shoot the face-mask in the eye several
times to destroy it but take care to dodge the small and large fireballs.

LEVEL 4

THE FINAL CONFLICT
Now you meet for one last battle but on this level you've no 'continue-
plays' for this fight.  Things are getting VERY nasty now.  All you have to
do is shoot anything that moves (obvious enough) and pick up any jewels you
see to get energy (another obvious hint).  At the end there are two large
men: shoot the right-hand one at the same time as you dodge the fireballs.
Fingers crossed you should bump him off but even now it's not over as
Dameron appears with his godly might and powers to hand.
To kill Dameron use the special weapon given to you.  Shoot the skulls on
his head then shoot his eyes several times to blow him away forever.  At
long last!  You've saved the Earth, its history, and its Myths - now
read the end of game message.


End.
