--------------------------------------------------------------------------
                          MR.THOMPSON / DEFJAM

                            P R E S E N T S

                       DOCS TO FLIPIT AND MAGNOSE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

LOADING
-------
This is the easy bit. Take the disk, and insert it label side up into the 
internal disk drive and turn on the power. Flip-it and Magnose will load and 
run automatically.

THE AIM OF THE GAME
-------------------
You can play Flip-it and Magnose either on your own, or simultaneously with 
a friend. Whatever you choose, the object of the game is the same - extract 
as much water as possible from Earth and escape.
The game is split into sex levels, each of which has a set amount of water 
to offer - but getting hold of it is not easy. The inhabitants of each 
level aren't going to give up their precious H2O easily, and the only way to 
get it from them is to find objects that you can swap the water for. Anyway, 
let's not get bogged down with details just yet - let's got you off on the 
right foot.

THE RIGHT FOOT
--------------
Before you can go and save Mars, you've got to get through the options, 
which appear as soon as the game has loaded. From here you can :
Select a One or Two player game.

LET'S GO
--------
As soon as you select to play with either one or two players, the game will
begin.
The screen is split into two separate displays - one for each player. Flip-it
is on the left, and Magnose is on the right. The large area is the main game 
screen for that player, where all the action takes place, and directly below 
that is a smaller display which shows all the vital information for the 
game:

THE TIMER
---------
Both players are up against the same tight time limit, as represented by this 
central chain. It starts at the top of the screen and slowly makes its way 
down - when it hits the bottom, the game is over for both players. 
Jump to it!!

OBJECTS HELD BOXES
------------------
Flip-it and Magnose can each hold up to four objects - but they can only use 
one at a time. These four boxes show what those objects are, with a blue 
frame indicating the one which is currently in use or "active". More on 
this in a mo.

WEAPON INDICATOR
----------------
Whatever weapons Flip-it and Magnose may have bought will be shown here.

FOOD CURRENCY INDICATOR
-----------------------
This shows how much food - which translates into spendable currency later 
on - the player is carrying.

WATER CONTAINER INDICATOR
-------------------------
You can't collect water unless you've got something to keep it in. This box 
shows if you're carrying a water container, and if it's full or empty.

THE WATER METER
---------------
This is the important one. The water meter shows exactly how much water 
you've currently collected.

MOVING ABOUT
------------
After the initial teleport sequence, which shows Flip-it and Magnose being 
beamed down from their spaceship, the game proper begins and you have 
complete control over your character. Here's what to do:

                           JOYSTICK DIAGRAMS                  
                           -----------------                  
                                   | 
            JUMP UP                |           OBJECT PANEL
               |                   |                |
    JUMP LEFT\ | /JUMP RIGHT       |              \ | /
          ____\|/____              |           ____\|/____
 WALK LEFT    /|\    WALK RIGHT    |      SLECT    /|\    SELECT    
             / | \                 |              / | \
               |                   |                |
          PICK UP/DROP             |            WEAPON PANEL
                                   |  
FIRE AND UP WILL PRODUCE A SUPER   |      FIRE BUTTON DEPRESSED 3 SECONDS 
JUMP!                              |      TO GAIN ACCESS TO STATUS PANEL.
                                   |

Each of the six levels scroll vertically only. You start off at the top of 
the level, and work your way up and down by running and jumping from 
platform to platform. Once you've got all the water you need it's back 
up to the top and onto the teleport pad you started from, to beam onto 
the next level.
There are six levels in total. Here's a rundown:

1.THE JUNGLE
2.THE MOUNTAIN
3.THE FARM HOUSE
4.THE TOWER BLOCK
5.FACTORY
6.SPACE STATION

While each level is different in terms of your surroundings, characters 
and puzzles, the gameplay remains pretty much the same throughout.
A level is inhabited by several characters. In the jungle for example, 
a Snake, a Frog, a Bird and a Bug. These are the characters that will
eventually provide you with the crucial life-giving liquid that can 
save your planet.
You'll also notice that on each level there are various objects scattered
about the place. By collecting these objects and giving them to the 
charatcters, you can obtain other, more useful objects, and eventually 
water.
How? OK, if you take a look around you'll see that the animals in the 
Jungle are, on the whole, unhappy. They want things, and you have to get
them.

THE FIRST PUZZLE
----------------
Take a look at the big Gorilla. In fact he's so unhappy he's throwing 
nuts all over the place. There'll be a particularly unhappy person on 
just about every level, and they can be a real nuisance. For example, 
if you get hit by the Gorilla's nuts(honk!) you'll get knocked off the
platform you're standing on.
Take a close look and you'll see that just below the Gorilla is a small 
platform that looks slightly different to the rest - this is called a
Drop Platform and most of the characters in the game have one of these 
close to them. This indicates they want an object from you. REMEMBER! 
You can't give an object to a charcter unless there is a Drop Platform 
for that character.
Now go and get the Nutcrackers. They're to be found on one of the 
platforms somewhere around the first level. To collect them, stand 
directly over them and push down. The nutcrackers should disappear from 
the main screen and reappear in one of the four boxes in your status 
display. You're now carrying the Nutcrackers.
Make your way back up the screen to the Gorilla, avoiding his nuts along the
way (hur-hur) and stand on the Drop Platform directly below him. Push down
on the joystick once more to drop the Nutcrackers, and he'll take them.
Suddenly, the Gorilla's happy! Now he can crack his nuts! (he he). In
return, he'll give you a bug. Collect this in the same way you did the
Nutcrackers.
Now take the bug down to the Frog and give it to him, by putting it on the
Drop Platform in the same way. The Frog will spit out a droplet of water -
collect this quickly!!
(you did remember to get a water container first, didn't you?)
The water container should now be full. Take it up to the Teleport Pad and
it will be beamed aboard the ship.
Success! You've collected some water! Now all you have to do is find out how
to get more water from the rest of the Jungle's inhabitants - remember, you
can't leave the level until you've extracted every last drop of water.
That's basically the way the puzzles work - give the right object to the
right character, and he'll give you another object that you can give to
another character. This carries on until you eventually get some water, and
once you've got enough the level is completed.

OBJECTS
-------
For the sake of speed and efficiemcy, it's often necessary to hold more than
one object at a time - this is easy to get the hang of, and it saves you
running to and from between locations.
If you're carrying an object, and want to get another without dropping the
one you've already got, simply follow these sleps:

Hold down the fire button three seconds to enter the Object Mode. Now when
you move left or right, you're no longer moving Flip-it or Magose, but the
blue fraime in the four Objects Held boxes. Move the frame to an empty box
(one with static in it) and press fire again. You're now controlling your
character again.
Now pick up the object as you would normally, and Presto! You've got two
objects. You can repeat this process until all four boxes are full. When you
need to select ann object to drop, simply highlight it using the blue frame
in the same way, and then drop it in the way you would normally.
In addition to the objects that are used to trade with characters, there are
also several useful (and not-so-useful) items scattered around the levels.

MYSTERY PILLS
-------------
Look out for the Mystery Pills - these capsule like objects are, as the name
suggests, a Mystery. They're different to the other objects because when you
collect one, instead of storing it in one of your four "pockets", you eat it
immediately.
Mystery Pills have a wide range of effects - some good, some bad.
Unfortunately, they all look identical and so the only way to find out what
a pill does is to eat it!
Fortunately, any ill effects of a Mystery Pill only last a short time.

SPRINGS
-------
These are handy. Getting around a level can be slow and tiresome process
with Flip-it and Magnose's limited jumping ability. For an easier ride,
collect one of these coils. Once collected (you must store it in one of your
pockets), you can add extra height to your jump by pressing fire as you push
up. The Spring's effects last only as long as you are carrying it - you may
be forced to drop it at times to make way for another object, and then it's
back to regular jumping power. Boo.

FOOD
----
This is very important. Since both Flip-it and Magnose have limited energy
(running out of time is the only thing that can stop them), they don't need
to eat. But they still need food as it acts as currency to buy the
all-important trapping devices (see TRAPS).
Food isn't stored in one of the four pockets. But in a separate area, so you
can collect as much as you like. The Food Currency Indicator in the Status
Display Shows how much you have. Collect anything and everything that looks
like a piece of food (there are many different types) - you'll need it at
the end of the level.
Food can be lost by falling - the further you fall, the more units of food
you lose, and the pieces lost can't be collected again. Be careful!!

TRAPS
-----
Flip=it and Magnose isn't just a race against the clock - you're constantly
battling against your partner to be first to finish a level and, ultimately,
the game. Only the first player to finish the game can be declared Champion
of Mars. It's failure and second-rate shaving ads for the loser.
Being faster is not always a guarantee of being first. Sometimes you may
need to slow down your partner's progress in order to keep one step ahead of
him - and this is where the Traps come in handy. Depending on the type of
trap, these cunning devices can be used to slow him down for a few vital
seconds and even sap his water supply!!

GETTING TRAPS
-------------
Traps are bought on the space ship at the end of every level. No mather who
completes a level first, both players get to buy traps in this inter-level
sequence.
Traps appear randomly in 3 different windows either 1 or 2 at a time. Move
your joystick left or right and press fire before your opponent gets it.
There is also a time limit!
REMEMBER! Traps don't come cheap - each of them has a price in food, and if
you haven't collected enough food to buy the trap, you can't have it. The
more food you have, the bigger and better traps you can buy.
Also, since both players are looking at the same windows, there is only one
set of items on offer. If you both want the same item, you'll have to be
quick - the first player to shoot it, gets it.
When you're finished on the Trap screen, select EXIT and you can go to the
next level.

TYPES OF TRAP
-------------
There are nie types of trap in all- each trap has a different effecton on
it's victim, and so some are nastier than others. We won't give them all
away here, but here's a brief rundown...

ELECTRIC TRAP
When the victim walks onto this, a high-voltage electrical charge stuns him
for around five or six seconds.

FIRE TRAP
This trap envelopes its victim in flames when he is unfortunate enough to
step on it, holding him back for four seconds. Not only that, the heat also
evaporates any water he is carrying!

GLUE TRAP
Walk onto this, and the tacky substance on the floor will keep you stuck for
five seconds.

ICE TRAP
Stepping onto this turns you into a real cool customer. The Ice Trap
activates and throws him off the platform.

USING TRAPS
-----------
Right, this is the fun part. You're in the game, you're opponent is ahead of
you in the water stakes and you need to trap him. Let's do it.
To select a trap, hold down fire for a short time to gain access to the
object boxes as normal. Then push down to get into the Weapon (trap)
Indicators. You can use left and right to scroll through the various traps
as you would objects. When you've selected the trap you want, press fire to
return to the game.
Now go to the platform where you want to set the trap and stand on it - any
platform will do. Then, with your trap selected, push down to place it. The
trap will flash. Now get off the platform quickly (you only have about two
seconds) and wait for the platform to stop flashing.
The trap is now set, and waiting to be tripped.
The great thing about traps is that they're invisible - unless your opponent
glances over to your screen and spies you setting it, there's absolutely no
way he can tell if it's there or not. Try and place traps on important
platforms that your opponent is likely to use.
Unfortunately, because the traps are invisible - you can't see them either.
It's vital that you remember where you put them, as traps don't discriminate
and will trap ANY player who steps on them. And there's nothing more
embarrassing than getting caught in your own trap!
There are ways to protect yourself against traps - but you'll have to find
those out for yourself. Try using the objects that none of the characters on
that level want - they could well be handy as trap protection.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------