                                FAERY TALE HINTS

Typed in by ???. Edited by PARASITE.


CHAPTER I: CHEAPIES & GETTING GOING
The first thing you will need to know is, what does everything do? Here's
a partial list:

DIRK, MACE, SWORD: standard weapons.
BOW, WAND: projectile weapons.
BLUE STONE: teleport, when used within any of 11 'great stone rings'.
GREEN JEWEL: infrared vision at night.
GLASS VIAL: use this to restore your vitality, usually from 3-11 points.
CRYSTAL ORB: see things that are hidden, most useful in caves and dungeons.
BIRD TOTEM: my favorite, overhead view of immediate surroundings.
GOLD RING: freeze foes for about 5 seconds.
JADE SKULL: kill all foes.
GOLD KEYS: open gold doors (duh).
GREEN KEYS: open doors at keeps, cabinets, & Vermillion Manor.
BLUE KEYS: open door at Crystal Palace.
RED KEYS: open secret doors in dungeons, tombs, & caves.
GREY KEYS: opens many doors, especially in Marheim, the Crypt, & caves.
WHITE KEYS: opens all castles.
GOLD STATUES: The 5 gold statues allow you to enter the hidden city Azal.
GOLDEN LASSO: Allows you to fly the golden swan.
SEA SHELL: Use to call the turtle when on the shore of any ocean.
SUN STONE: I didn't need it (I don't think I did... I never used it)
ROSE: ditto.
CRYSTAL SHARD: ditto.
BONE: Used to get Crystal Shard, which I didn't need.
WRIT: Used to get one of the gold statues.

There were other miscellaneous items I didn't get, such as a fruit, a herb,
and a book. Obviously, you don't really need them to solve this one.

This is how to get going without getting killed 100 times, and having to
use that wimp Kevin to finish your game. The first thing you should do is
search every building in Tambry. Use the 'LOOK' option to find all hidden
objects. Then, save your game as A. This ends your session, you will have
to reboot, but hey, it takes less time than finding all that junk again
after you die.

Now, follow the road southeast from the east exit of Tambry to the Graveyard.
(If anyone tries to jump you along the way, use the Skull on 'em. Especially
if one of them has a sword. Make sure you 'TAKE' from every corpse you make.)
Now, when you are in the Graveyard, you can swing through the fence to kill
and search skeletons, ogres and goblins (what a cheapie). Do this until you
build some real stats (around 200-300 bravery). It seems dull but it will
help a lot down the road.

Here's a few other cheapies I found. When punks are attacking you, try 'GIVE'
gold - it'll jack up your kindness. In fact, give gold to everybody. Use the
sword as your primary weapon; as the game progresses, your killing range
increases. Don't bother searching dead guys with bows, all you find is arrows.

CHAPTER II: HOW I SOLVED IT
This is a general guide on solving Faery Tale. Of course, you'll want to
explore a lot of the castles yourself. Let me first say that the only places
to get food (most important) are the inns (small squares on map), Tambry, and
in the two bottom-left-most buildings in Marheim, besides the castle.

1.  First thing you want to do, after tooling around the graveyard, is head
to either the Watchtower or Turtle Point. At either place you can get the
seashell. Once you do, you're set for water travel for the rest of the game.
2.  Next, you want to start accumulating gold statues. An easy one is on the
Isle Of Sorcery. Find the Crystal Palace, use a blue key to get in and talk
to the Sorceress. After you get the statue, keep 'TALKing' to her - she will
increase your luck to about 65.
3.  Call your turtle and sail north - the next easy statue is in the castle
at Seahold. Remember your white key!
4.  Your next visit should be the cave in the Mountains Of Frost. If you
can't find it, find one of the Rangers who are posted N, S, E and W of the
cave. Follow the tunnel north from the 1st forked intersection, use a gold
ring (you should have plenty by now) to immobilize the dragon, and proceed to
the stone corridors. Map these out! You will eventually find a MAGIC WAND.
Get it and get out.
5.  Next, you will need to kill the witch. She is in Grimwood. You must use
many Bird Totems to map Grimwood. You will find 3 distinct sections - a
southwesterly section (useless), a main section, and an inaccessible section
up north surrounding the witch's castle. Enter the main section with the most
northwesterly of 3 entrances to Grimwood (it's on the West edge). While in
the main section, follow the trail up north past the small keep in the
southeast corner of Grimwood. It will lead to a dead end in which you will
find a gold statue. Then, go back and get as close to the witch's section of
Grimwood. With a bird totem, you will see a cave entrance (gray spot on map)
in the witch's section. Almost due south, in your section at a dead end, you
will see a black gap in the woods leading underground (shows as a very small
black rectangle when you use totem). Go in. You will be underground. Follow
trail north through large chamber, then take the west branch of forked
intersection. You will find another forked intersection, this time go south.
You will exit into the witch's section. Follow maze to her castle, 'USE'
magic wand before entering. Zap her a few times and she's history. Pick up
the golden lasso she dropped. Get out of Grimwood.
6.  Next, get set for air travel. Head for Swan Island. Just touch the swan
to mount it and fly. By the way, if you save your game, and the swan isn't
where you left it, don't worry, just walk off for a few screens, then come
back, it'll reappear (buggy pgm, huh?). Okay, fly the swan to that 'Tower in
the mountains' on your map that's just about midway between Marheim & Seahold.
Just for fun, you can go to a temple that's about 100 yards due northwest of
the tower and get a Sun Stone (I'm not sure that you need it). Anyway, land
on top the tower, take the stairs, touch princess to rescue her.
7.  You will appear in Marheim, when you exit the Kings Castle, go straight
to the priest (due east of the castle entrance). Use grey key to enter
building. Take your 4th gold statue.
8.  Next stop, the Tombs Of Hemsath. To get to the good stuff, take the first
two right turns down the corridors. You should come to a loooong path heading
south. Take the first turn to the east, you will come to a stone maze with
tons of gold doors. Even I didn't bother mapping the whole thing, but I offer
these hints. Take the first gold door north, and use your ORB to find secret
doors! The 5th gold statue is in an octagonal room to the northeast, while to
the southeast you will come to another stone corridor leading eventually to
an alter which has a bone on it.
9.  If you took the bone, go the the crypt in the graveyard at midnight and
give it to the wraith-lord. He will give you a crystal shard.
10.  If you got all 5 statues, go to the hidden city of Azal. In one of the
rooms you will find a rose.
11.  In the southernmost section of the Plain Of Grief, sequestered in the
mountains, you will find the Citadel Of Doom. Don't worry about the lava,
you'll probably be able to walk over it (I was). Enter the Citadel. Once in,
enter the astral plane. This will probably freak you out. Careful of the
silvery tiles - they're slippery. Don't fall off. Once in, you will go north,
then the path turns east. There will be a south turn off, ignore it. You will
go south a while, then turn east into a large slippery square surface. The
path continues from the northeast corner of it. Follow it east, north, then
west. Ignore another south turn-off. Follow path west, south, west, north,
west. You will come to a large area of 'negative energy' - you'll know it
because it blocks off the stars. Walk right up as close as you can, then try
to walk backwards out of it. Since it is negative energy, you will continue
forward into the void. Within this void, you will find a large square of red
tiles. Get out your wand - this is the home of the evil Necromancer! Kick his
ass and he drops the talisman. Pick it up and you win, and feel like kicking
someone's teeth in after you spend 2 weeks of your life to solve another
huge adventure only to get a lame title screen at the end... argh! How about
a nice animated ending, like Questron? Too much to ask anymore?
