                         MIDWINTER PLAYERS GUIDE

Typed in by PARASITE of LSD.


When the game starts, you are in control of Captain Stark, alone on
patrol, and likely to be in the wilderness. Armed with only a rifle
and a clutch of grenades, you'll soon be under attack from an enemy
convoy with the upperhand in military hardware and manouvrability, or
shelled as the spotter planes get a fix on your position. Be certain
to have checked the map thoroughly, down to maximum magnification,
before starting to ski. Initially look for two things;

1) The nearest place of safety
2) The nearest garage

Secondly look at the relative positions of your colleagues awaiting
recruitment.
If you have to stay on skills any length of time at the start of the
game, you're likely to meet more trouble than you can handle.
You need wheels! so get to the nearest garage.

Driving is much easier if you stick to the valleys. If you have to
travel over elevated ground to reach a character by Snow-Buggy refer
constantly to the map, making use of 'relief' mode to analyse the best
path. However, there is no substitute for driving slowly, 40 MPH is
best.

Now you have to decide which building to enter, according to the state
of the character and the time remaining. do you need to eat, rest or
sleep? Do you need supplies? Will you over-run the Situation Report
time, thereby restricting your ability to move on?
Always attempt to recruit any team members first, and, if there is a
garage present, always leave enough time to enter it and get a Snow-
buggy.
if you want to keep any recruited characters together, access the
companions display and select methods of movement from there. By
referring to the personality displays of characters whom you wish to
move together, find the best driver, and make him/her the party
leader.

Once you have recruited a few members, and before syncronising watches
too many times, it is often useful to send one character in a buggy to
'pick off' the lead units. You do not have to shoot every vehicle in
the convoy. You may get lucky and the command vehicle; you may be able
to kill off half the convoy quickly; in either case the remaining
vehicles will desert, giving you valuble time whilst the other convoys
travel from the Shining Hollow area.
The speed at which the convoys travel, and the regularity with which
they fire depend on the number of 'restocking' buildings they have
captured nearby. Destroying Synthesis Plants, Factories and Warehouses
will slow them down and make life easier for your team. However
sabotaging buildings can be time consuming. Make sure that you use a
character with above average ability to perform such tasks.

On reaching a settlement check your characters level of Muscle Power,
Energy, and Alertness. Also note whether the character has dynamite
with him, and check the time remaining before the next situation
report is due.

Spending some time at the start of the game deciding which characters
to recruit first is a must. Kristiansen is a valuable, but difficult,
member to recruit. He is surrounded by steep hills in Diamond Valley
and will only join if asked by certain civilians. If Stark starts the
game in the centre of the island, try to rcruit Davy Hart first. Stark
should take the snow buggy to Kristiansen to recruit the Professor.
then send Stark for Kristiansen down to Snowstorm Valley to the radio
station. Caygill can be recruited by Stark whilst the electronics
expert enters the radio station  and uses his radio knowledge to
recruit four other members at random.
Meanwhile Davey can either travel west to recruit Rundel, as the only
person who can persuade the  hunter to join the struggle, or go to
liberate nearby Peace Officers recruited by Kristiansens message, who
are captured by the enemy.
Civilians can enter enemy held buildings and free the officers. Then,
by using the companions display to exit the building, the civilians
can take prisoners with them.
With luck, Kristiansen will recruit someone in the North-west of the
island. Use the person you enlist to recruit others in a South-
easterly direction. Once one is recruited, find him or her a Snow-
Buggy and split up. Employ a 'pyramid effect' so that one becomes two,
two becomes four, and four becomes eight, etc.

This will probably leave you with two 'waves' of recruits. One in the
North-west, and one in the South-central part of the island. Getting
to Shining Hollow can be achieved in a number of ways. Driving towards
the enemy can prove disastrous, but you may succeed by blasting a path
through to General Masters HQ.

Hang-Gliding takes skill but can be quick and effective. To land one,
slow down and pull up. Sometimes the most direct route is not the most
effective. Try sneaking behind the enemy with the help of two sisters!

End.
