
            _____
           /__  /\  ________      T.H.E  ____________
          //   Œ_Œ_Œ\_____  \/\________  \_______    _________
   ___ __/    /    /\\    \   .\_____  \/\  /.  /   /\     ___Œ_ ____ ___
      Y  \______  / — \    \   \\ _  \    \//  /    – \___   _ _\    Y
      .   \_____/ / \ \________/\\   \    \__Œ__  / –/\        \\   .
                 \/   \Œ_______/\ \________Œ____/ / \ \  ______/[Sk!n]
                                 \Œ_______/       \/   \ \Œ_____/
                             [Simply Nutty]             \/      

        /--------------------------*----------------------------------\
       ;|                   PrOuDlY PrEsEnTs                          |,
        |                                                             |
       /                 FuLl EnGlIsH DoCs FoR:                        \
      :\                                                               /:
      . |  sisongysP morF->   COMBAT AIR PATROL   <-from Psygnosis    | .
        |                                                             | 
        \--------------------------*----------------------------------/       
        ;                                                             :
 
          _                LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
       _ //
 AMIGA \X/


 Insert disk 1 into the internal drive and turn on your Amiga.  The 
 introductory scenes will now load.  Once completed, insert disk 2 into the
 internal drive and follow the on-screen prompts to insert disk 3(note that it
 is not necessary to use disk 1 if the intro is not required.  In this case, 
 disk 2 can be used from boot up).  The game will now begin.  If the game is 
 left to enter demo mode SHIFT & ESCAPE will revert back to the Main Menu 
 screen.

 We suggest that a backup copy is immediately made of disk 3 as this disk is 
 written to throughout the game.  Ensure the disk retains the original disk 
 name and is not prefixed with `Copy_of_Cap2`.


                               INTRODUCTION

 To most of us, Operation Desert Storm was seen as a victory.  It was the 
 culmination of months of unwarranted aggression on the part of one large 
 county over another, more peaceful nation.  AS such, the outcome was regarded
 with both joy and relief.

 But whatever the political reasoning behind the invasion of Kuwait- by either 
 side- to the front line troops involved, it was a situation they had all been
 trained for and were ready to accept.  Unlike other occupations, the only time
 the soldier gets to do his job is during warfare.  For many of them, this was 
 a rare opportunity and as far as they were concerned, this was their job and 
 they were out to do it well.

 The conflict in the Gulf was unique in many respects.  It came at a period 
 when all the main coalition powers involved were cutting back on military 
 spending and rationalizing defence forces.  It also gave the commanders of 
 the armed forces and weapons developers a unique opportunity to test modern 
 weapons under battle conditions.  Never before had the weapons been so 
 technologicaly advanced and reliant on electronics.  Years of development
 had equipped the allied forces with a huge array of defence and attack 
 mechanisms from electronic scrambling systems, aimed at confusing enemy 
 intelligence and communications, to Laser guidance systems for missiles.  The
 Gulf War was to be a test for them all- both hardware and personnel alike- and 
 was to prove the skill and determination of all involved to the full.


                           CHRONICLE OF THE WAR

 The Old War has always been area of border quarrels and bloody wars.  Over 
 literally thousands of years, empires has risen and crumbled and the various 
 races of people who live in this turbulent area have moved to and fro.

 An objective view highlights Sadaam Hussein as a man with a mission.  Claiming
 descendency from Nebuchadnezzar, he was driven by a will to lead his people 
 to dominancy and pursued this quest with a remorseless vigor.  after a drawn-
 out and bloody war with Iran, Iraq briefly rested and turned it's attentions 
 upon it's tiny neighbor.  Iraq had long quarreled with kuwait over the 
 Rumaila oil field which lay on the border between the two countries.  Iraq 
 protested that Kuwait was stealing oil from this shared oil field and forcing
 down the price of crude world-wide.  This was in direct opposition to the 
 wishes of Sadaam who was aiming to raise world prices to pay for urban 
 reconstruction within Iraq itself.

 This was not however, the only possible explanation for this particularly 
 vicious actions and many Western commentators were quick to point out other, 
 more sinister and selfish motives.  Apart from regular grumblings issuing from
 Iraq claiming Kuwaiti territory for it's own, Sadaams determination to become 
 a hugely powerful figure in the world stage, to lead a religious and political
 upheaval amongst the peoples of the East and to field an immense military 
 presence which could take-on the most powerful armies of the West was almost
 transparent in it's own direction.

 The early morning silence of August 2 1990 was broken by the sound of advancing
 iraqi tanks moving quickly towards the kuwaiti border.  Less than two hours 
 later, they were pressing upon the outskirts of Kuwait City, threatening it's
 population of 1.7 million people and throwing Kuwait under the spotlight of
 world attention.

 Little resistance lay in the path of the experienced and well armed iraqi 
 troops now entering the City.  Strike aircraft, principally Migs, pounded
 targets in the centre and launched rocket attacks against the Emir's palace.
 Ground troops were held momentarily at bay as the palace guards fought 
 valiantly for their Emir who escaped with minutes to spare to neighboring 
 Saudi Arabia.  

 And so Kuwait became one small province of the expanding Iraq.  The action was
 unanimously condemned by UN.  Saudi-Arabia, who found a huge and aggressive
 force on their borders with the former Kuwait thrown into panic and the West, 
 lead by the USA, vehemently denounced this aggression and promised action 
 would be taken.  Not for a moment did Sadaam realize just in what form this 
 action would come.  He seemed to think that his position, several hundred 
 miles away from the nearest western power was enough to keep him safe.  He 
 was so so wrong, what a LoOnatic.

 Apart from moral issues- where the population was effectively taken captive 
 and held against it's will, economic issues undoubtedly played an important 
 part in provoking swift action by coalition countries.

 Iraq was a major exporter of crude oil.  Kuwait to relied upon oil to keep 
 it's economy thriving and allowed this tiny country to possess one of the 
 highest standards of living in the world.  But by invading Kuwait, Iraq now
 held even greater control over a considerable proportion of the worlds oil 
 fields and could now lever it's own, inflated, pricing policies into place.
 Apart from this, what seemed to particularly startle the outside world was 
 the fact that the Iraqi shadow now lingered on the border of Saudi Arabia and
 vast reserves of oil.

 The UN were outspoken in their condemnation of this brutal attack and, after 
 exhaustive discussions within the UN, passed a resolution which enforced a 
 blockage around Iraq and the annexed Kuwait.  This prohibited Iraq from 
 selling it's oil on the world market and effectively cut all other trade with
 the outside world in the effort to force Sadaam to retreat through economic 
 pressures.  The hope was insane.

 The world eventually lost it's patience.  Following the invasion, Iraqi diplo-
 mats had promised the invasion was a temporary measure to remove a tyrannical
 leadership.  The West and Eastern neighbors of Iraq were not convinced and,
 after a short period of diplomatic wrangling, the inevitable happened.  A
 coalition force, headed by the USA.  But involving troops from Great Britain,
 France, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Oman, United Arab Emirates and several other 
 countries was formed and, after gaining U.N. approval, determined to enter the
 Gulf area in an attempt to both protect the surrounding areas from the threat 
 of attack and perhaps, launch an attack to free Kuwait.

 History has told of the course of events that followed and it is not the place
 of this short chronicle to mirror the outstanding performance of all those 
 involved in the conflict on the coalition side.  Rather, this is where we join
 the campaign.  Allied forces are massed on the border with Kuwait on Saudi 
 territory and are prepared for the attack.  The Roosevelt lies in the Gulf 
 within striking distance of all strategic Kuwaiti targets and all Navy crew
 members are on full alert.


                            THE ALLIED FORCE                     

 THE USS THEODORE ROOSEVELT (CVN-71)

 The aircraft carrier, Theodore Roosevelt, is a vital part of the carrier fleet
 of the us navy.  It's huge strike/defence capabilities allows the US to deploy
 an impressive range of both strike and intercept aircraft to any part of the 
 world in an extremely short space of time.

 The 1000 foot long vessel is powered by two nuclear reactors which offer enough
 fuel for over 15 years of normal operation can propel the 97,000 ton carrier 
 at speeds of upto 30 knots.  It has four individual flight decks, complete 
 with C-13-1 MK 7 catapults which accelerate the aircraft along a 
 significantly shortened runway and allow them to reach take off speed of 
 around 160 mph in under 310 feet.

 The Roosevelt houses a maximum load of approximately 85 aircraft which offer 
 a variety of tactical and operational capabilities.  Anti-submarine defence is
 provided by the sh-3 Sea King helicopters and the s-3a Viking helicopter which
 work in collaboration with the extensive on board anti-submarine warfare 
 Module to provide a submarine screen of outstanding effectiveness.

 Carrier escort facilities are offered by both the E-2 Hawkeye and the F14-
 Tomcat.  The Hawkeye possesses a rotating radar dome affixed to the top of 
 the fuselage which can detect targets at long range.  Information is then 
 passed on to the F14 interceptors which visually identify the target and 
 advise/carry out any further action.  But this would have been no good if 
 it had meat the USA'S top secret plane at the time the F1-11 stealth.

 Airborne electronic defence is provided by the EA-6B Prowler which commands
 a potent armory of signal-countering instruments.  The jamming of 
 communications signals and the disruption of enemy radar allow friendly 
 aircraft considerable advantages when operating within electronically-defended
 territory.

 The principal air-strike role aboard the Roosevelt is shared by two aircraft
 the A-6e intruder all weather attack aircraft and the F/A-18 Hornet strike
 fighter.  These squadrons carry out all air-to-surface attack missions and 
 offer a particularly effective strike capability.

 THE F-14 TOMCAT

 The Grumman F-14, or Tomcat, was developed as a no-compromise multipurpose
 fighter aircraft.  during years of service throughout the world, it has 
 become the backbone of the US. Navy fighter capability because of it's 
 outstanding performance in all areas of ariel combat.

 It is powered by two general electric f110 engines which accelerate the 
 aircraft upto a speed of 1,560 mph (mach 2.3), making straight line 
 performance comparable to any fighter aircraft in the world.  But what make 
 the F-14 really exciting is the way it can use this performance.  Previously,
 a fighter aircraft were full of compromise usually the payoff between speed
 and agility.  The development team behind the F-14 practically ironed out 
 the need for compromise making the Tomcat not just fast, but agile aswell.
 Then they added a host of the latest weapons, controlled by the AWG-9 weapons
 control system.  This allows the aircraft to detect over 20 targets 
 simultaneously and select/attack the 6 most threatening(whilst tracking the
 remaining targets).  All in all, they had developed what is possibly the most
 awesome fighting machine in the world today.

 The weaponry of the F-14 matches its performance capabilities in every 
 aspect.  It is able to carry a mixed payload of Air-to-Air(A/A) missiles 
 which allow the F-14 to fulfil a variety of important airborne attack or 
 intercept roles.

 THE F-18 HORNET      
                  
 The McDonnell Douglas/Northrop F/A-18 Hornet(it's full title) was conceived 
 to fulfil a multipurpose attack/fighter role which could also meet USA Navy
 specifications.  It utilizes two General electric augmented turbofans which 
 output 32,000lbs/thrust- offering maximum speed capabilities of 1,200 mph 
 (unladen) at altitude.

 The large wing area, strenghtened and widened fuselage and redisgned avionics
 pay tribute to the Naval origins of the F-18, meaning increased range and take
 off/landing capabilities.  It also allows the F-18 greater self sufficiency 
 in the field and the ability to carry an extensive missile payload.

 The weaponry carried by the hornet is usually a mixture of both air-to-air
 and air-to-ground missiles, depending on operational requirements.  In 
 addition to the weaponry detailed on the following pages, standard armament
 includes a single m61 cannon mounted in the nose cone.

 The weaponry for both aircraft is categorised into air-to-air and air-to-
 ground classifications.  The F-14 has an option on all A/A missiles whilst 
 only the Sparrow and Sidewinder A/A missiles are available to the F-18.
 Converesely, only the F-18 can carry air-to-ground weapons.  One important 
 note to the detonation of A/A missiles is that they are fitted with fuses 
 which are sensitive to the proximity of the target aircraft.  This means that
 a direction hit is not necessarily required for a kill as the missile will 
 explode without contact.

 COMBAT AIR PATROL OBJECTIVES

 Combat Air Patrol is primarily concerned with the explosion of enemy forces 
 from within the pre-invasion boundries of Kuwait.  Obviously, it is very much 
 up to the individual just how important any follow-up measures would be once 
 the Iraqis have pulled out of Kuwait - if you manage to achieve that!  You may
 decide that coalition forces should in fact have continued the retaliation up
 to the point where Iraq itself was invaded and the fleeing forces neutralized.
 It is entirely down to your discretion.

 Another objective in any re-invasion scenario would have to be Sadaam himself
 and CAP includes mechanisms where by you might just catch a glimpse of him 
 in you HUD sights.

                                 ARMAMENT 
              
 AIR-TO-AIR

 F-14 & F-18
 
 VULCAN M61 CANNON

 The vulcan cannon fires upto 100 high-velocity rounds per second through six 
 barrels.  The aircraft carries an advanced targeting system which calculates 
 the distance, heading and velocity of the target according to these 
 calculations.  This means that the cannon is not necessarily aimed directly 
 at the target but ahead of it, allowing for the movement of the target air-
 craft in the period between firing and striking.

 TO FIRE

 When on the cannon mode, the HUD display will indicate this with the GUN 
 discrete and the number remaining rounds - initially 250.  A circular aiming 
 discreet appears on the HUD and a square target box will surround any targets 
 viewed through the HUD.  Align the target box with the aiming discreet and a 
 SHOOT message will appear below the HUD when the cannon is on target.

 F-14 & F-18

 SIDEWINDER (AIM-9M)

 Sidewinder missiles are the mainstay close-combat heat seeking missiles.  These
 missiles are equipped with highly sensitive Infa Red(IR) seeking equipment 
 which allow the missile to home-in on any IR source emitted by an enemy 
 aircraft.  These missiles are primarily used in short range combat situations
 but are vulnerable to decoy flares.  The Sidewinder family of missiles have
 an operational range upto 11 miles with a flight time of around 20-60 seconds.
 Firing accelerates the missile upto mach 2.5 in a little over 2 seconds.

 F-14 & F-18

 SPARROW (AIM-7)

 Sparrow missiles are powered by a solid motor up to a terminal speed of mach 
 4.  These feature advanced radar guidance systems(SARH- Semi Active Radar 
 Homing)in which the firing aircraft bounces a radar beam off the target which 
 acts as a path for the Sparrow missile.  This means the launch plane must be 
 travelling towards the target to illuminate it.  Continuous tracking of the
 target must be maintained up until impact. 
     
 F-14

 PHEONIX

 Pheonix is a weapon unique to the Tomcat which was developed as the ultimate 
 in A/A missiles.  Costing well over $1/2 million each, the Pheonix has a range
 of 125 miles(the longest range A/A missile)and a maximum speed of mach 5.  It
 features advanced radar tracking capabilities for accurate target identification
 together with a default attack mode which assumes the target is travelling 
 head-on; a notoriouslyy difficult strike scenario.  Once launched, the Pheonix
 tracks the target long-range under internal guidance, switching to radar to
 illuminate the target when within close range.  The Pheonix carries a large 
 annular blast fragmentation warhead.

 TO FIRE

 The missile selection for A/A combat is imperative if a high kill ratio is to
 be maintained - the range indicator is vital to achieve this and must be  
 used.

 With the HUD on A/A mode, choose the appropriate missile by toggling through
 the current payload with the CTRL key - Short range missiles (Sidewinders) are
 abbreviated to SDWR.  Sparrows are indicated as SPRW - Pheonix are PHNX.

 When the MFD indicates an enemy presence choose the missile following these
 rough range guidelines.  Bear in mind that because of the nature of air combat
 which is played out at high speed in 3 dimensions, there are an infinitely 
 variable number of strike possibilities.  Therefore any guidelines must be 
 modified with regard to any individual strike scenario.

 For example, the effective operational range of the Sidewinder is considerably
 lenghtened if the target is flying directly towards, rather than away from,
 the firing aircraft.  Since the flight time of a Sidewinder is upto 1 minute,
 it will take longer to reach the latter aircraft and therefore it is up to the
 pilot to determine which missile is the most appropriate - a decision upon
 which his life may well depend!

 With a Sidewinder selected, a large circular discrete will appear on the HUD.
 If a target is locked on to within this zone, there is a high strike 
 probability.  Press T to command the missile and aircraft systems to search 
 for a target.  At this command, the aircraft radar systems will search & lock
 on to a possible target.

 Surrounding it with a square box.  The missile-borne target detection systems
 will then follow this with a diamond shaped discrete which, when it reaches
 the square discrete will indicate a lock-on target.  The missile is now ready
 to fire and a lock-on target will be audible.  This is identical for all A/A
 missiles although the Sparrow, being a missile of the SARH type requires 
 the launch aircraft to continue in the direction of the target until strike 
 is acheived.  Pheonix and Sidewinder can be fired - after lock-on is acheived
 - and left to strike the target under internal guidance.

 :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
 SIDEWINDER
 
 RANGE 			SPEED			DURATION 
 11 MILES		MACH 2.5		60 SECONDS
 
 ...........................................................................
 SPARROW

 RANGE			SPEED			DURATION
 62 MILES		MACH 4			3.5 MINUTES

 ...........................................................................
 PHEONIX

 RANGE 			SPEED			DURATION
 150 MILES		MACH 5+			MAXIMUM 7 MINUTES

 :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

 AIR-TO-GROUND  (F-18 ONLY)

 WALLEYE (AGM-62)

 The Walleye was described as the most accurate and effective A/G conventional
 weapon ever developed anywhere by the US military.  Despite being unpowered
 glide bomb,  it has a TV guidance system which offers target identification
 and the facility to glide a bomb towards the target.

 TO FIRE

 Must be released at a medium to high altitudes.  Pressing F10 will allow you
 to view missile through the tv missile camera.  Press fire to release the 
 bomb and the missile is then steered into the target using the same controls
 as were used to fly the plane.  Ensure the release aircraft is in level flight
 before switching to missile control.

 HARM (AGM-88A)

 Harm is an abbreviation for High-speed Anti-radiation Missile and fulfilled a
 need for a missile which could detect and lock-on to enemy radar radiation
 and destroy the source, ideally before the unit could be turned off - thus the
 high-speed requirement.  If the missile is detected and the targeted radar
 facility shut down, the Harm continues its flight path, invariably striking 
 the target with accuracy.  Specifictions include mach 2+ performance, body 
 length of 13` and range of around 12 miles, depending upon conditions and 
 altitude.

 TO FIRE

 Select the Harm missile in A/G mode on the HUD display.  Using the radiation
 receiver in the nose cone of the Harm, the missile will detect any ground
 based radiation source which can be locked on to by pressing T.  Toggle
 between this and the other radiation-emitting targets by pressing T.  Once
 fired, the missile will automatically home in on the source.

 MAVERICK (AGM-65)

 Maverick is a A/G missile that fills an important gap in the attack 
 capabilities of a large number of aircraft and was designed for just that - 
 to be a compact missile designed for carriage by several planes.  The first
 Maverick possessed a TV guidance system which the pilot could point at and
 lock-on to a target.  Later Maverick systems were fitted with an I.R.  imaging
 system which allowed great accuracy, even at night.

 TO FIRE

 Select the infa red view from the nose of the Maverick by pressing F10.  A 
 cross hair sight will appear in the A cross hair sight will appear in the 
 centre of the screen.  To fire the Maverick with accuracy, you must carefully 
 manoeuvrer the aircraft so the cross hair sight is over the target.  Note that 
 you are not moving the cross hair but the aircraft to attain target lock-on.  
 When this attained, press the SPACE bar to command the missile to search the
 selected area for a valid target.  The Maverick will then scan the area 
 selected looking for possible targets.  Once the scan is complete, it will
 lock-on to a target, surrounding it with a red box.  Break the lock with the
 X key.  To select any other possible targets, move the cross hair towards the
 new target and re-lock.  Press fire to release the weapon.  It is possible to
 zoom in or out using the [] keys at anytime.

 HARPOON (AGMA-84)

 Harpoon, as the name suggests, is primarily an anti-ship missile of the sea
 skimming type.  This means that once launched it hugs the sea, evading ships 
 radar, only breaking into the radar detection zone when pin-pointing the 
 target and seconds before actually striking the vessel.  In the final attack
 phase, the Harpoon suddenly pulls up to strike a target from above- thus 
 hitting the vessel in the most vulnerable and damaging area.

 TO FIRE

 The F-18's, radar continuosly scans the surface of the sea looking for surface
 vessels which are displayed on the radars MFD'S.  Once a target is selected by
 pressing T it will be transferred onto the HUD display with a targeting box
 surrounding it.  Press fire, and the missile will guide itself into attacking
 trajectory at wavetop height, using it's radar in its strike phase.

 SLAM (AGME-84)

 Slam, the stand off land attack missile, is a variant on the Harpoon used for
 long based targets.  Replacing the radar homing guidance system of the 
 Harpoon, which would be useless against appropriate targets on land.  Slam
 is fitted with the Maverick I.R. seeker and the Walleye TV guidance system 
 which, combined with a modified warhead suitable for the penetration of the
 fortified targets makes the Slam a powerful ASM(air-to-surface missile).

 TO FIRE

 Flying into the vicinity of and towards the target, the missile is launched
 in its general direction.  F10 allows you to view from the nose of the missile 
 and manual guidance is attained by pressing the space bar and controlling in
 the same manner as the Walleye.  Manual control should be used only when the 
 target is in visual contact as the internal guidance systems will direct the
 missile with a much higher degree of accuracy over long distances than a 
 pilot could hope to do.  Ensure level flight is maintained before switching 
 to missile control.

 MK82(500LB) MK83(1000LB) MK84(2000LB) FREEFALL BOMBS

 This family of bombs fulfil a vital tactical role in the arsenal of any
 strike aircraft.  Essentially a traditional freefall bomb, the range includes
 Low Drag(LD) and High Drag(HD) varieties.  The LD bomb allows the attacking 
 aircraft to release the bomb some distance away from the target- the bomb then
 continues the trajectory of the attack towards the target.  The HD bomb 
 possesses a mechanism which scoops the air as the bomb descends, slowing the 
 drop rate of the bomb.  This ensures the bomb falls vertically into the target
 and allows the pilot to fly straight over the target to release the bomb.  It
 also lets the pilot clear the target before the bomb detonates - eliminating
 the possibility of blast damage to the aircraft.

 The type of bomb used depends upon the individual attack requirements and it
 is up to the pilot to decide which is suitable for any given scenario.

 TO FIRE

 Level Bombing:  Align the central cross hair on HUD display with the target.
 Next, lock-on to the target by pressing the space bar.  If the lock-on box is
 not aligned with the target, release locking by pressing X and then re-lock.  
 As you close with the target, a vertical line is drawn on the HUD which allows
 you to keep on course for the target.  if the line deviates from the centre of
 the display, alter your course in direction of the deviation until the line
 is re-centred.

 When the top of the line hits the centre of the screen, the bombs must be
 released.

 Dive Bombing:  Dive towards the target after gaining sufficient altitude and a
 circular CCIP symbol will be displayed - showing the point of impact if the 
 bombs were to be released to that moment.  Once the CCIP is over the target,
 release the bombs.

 PAVEWAY LGB'S(LASER GUIDED BOMBS)

 Paveway were developed out of a need for tactical free-fall bomb which could 
 be guided with extreme accuracy towards tactically strategic targets.  The 
 Paveway therefore allows standard freefall bombs to be converted into advanced
 LGB's with a subsequent improvement in accuracy.  The guiding Laser may be 
 mounted upon either the release aircraft or on another aircraft - or even
 carried by the ground troops.  The modern Paveway family used by the F-18
 consists of the MK83 & MK84.  CAP requires that the strike aircraft must be
 carrying the ASQ 173 Laser tracking system before LGB's can be used.

 LGB BOMBING

 Once LGB has been selected on the HUD weapons selection mode, fly towards the
 target at a uniform altitude and press F10 to view from Laser designator.  Use
 the zoom keys [] for a more accurate view of the target.  Lock on to the 
 target with the SPACEBAR or T key - press X to cancel lock-on - and press fire
 to release the bomb.  If the bomb is released with enough altitude and the 
 plane was flying towards the target, then the bomb should hit if released 
 within range.  Typical Gulf War release altitudes were 15 to 20 thousand feet,
 so the attacker was above AAA levels.

 ZUNI ROCKETS (LAU)

 Zuni are fired from a wing mounted launcher and are especially effective 
 against such 'soft' targets as supply columns and infantry units.  Each 
 launcher contains 19 rockets with an effective range of around 4 miles.

 TO FIRE

 Line up the target with the HUD cross-hairs and press fire.  Target 
 identification is possible using the zoom keys [].

 OTHER PAYLOADS

 TARPS

 The Tarps PoB is fitted to an F14 for reconnaissance missions.  This PoB
 contains an advanced camera unit which films a target during a fly-over
 reconnaissance mission to produce a picture of extremely high definition.
 The footage can then be used to plan attack missions.

 TO USE

 Fly over the target and press F10 to view the Tarps camera image.  Adjust 
 your flight path to pass directly over the target - continuing to view the
 ground through the Tarps camera.  Press fire to begin recording lasts for
 about 1 minute.

 LASER TRACKER (ASQ 173)

 The Laser tracker is a facility that is mounted beneath the aircraft and 
 allows Laser guided bombs to be used by the aircraft.  It offers electronic
 imaging of the terrain immediately surrounding the plane from which the target
 may be selected.

 TO USE

 With the target in visual range, press F10 to access the tracker.  The cursor
 keys(or equivalent control) will allow the pilot to direct the movement of the
 tracker and move the cross-hair over the target.  The cross-hairs must bee 
 placed over the target with extreme accuracy and therefore a magnification 
 facility is available.  Use the [&] keys to magnify the image through a factor
 of x2 up to a maximum of x32 magnification and press T to select a target X
 breaks a target lock-on.

 CHAFF

 Chaff is carried by a fighter aircraft as a defence against radar guided 
 missiles.  When the aircraft detects radar lock-on by an approaching missile,
 it is necessary to release a cloud of metal strips behind the plane which 
 fools the missile into thinking the cloud is a target - thus the missile
 destroys the Chaff.

 TO USE

 When the missile warning indicators(page94) display an incoming radar guided
 missile and the onboard computer says MISSILE WARNING then press D for decoy
 and Chaff will be released.

 INFA-RED FLARES

 When an infa-red guided missile is tracking your aircraft, Flares must be 
 released to decoy the missile.  These Flares burn with a greater intensity 
 than the aircraft engines and therefore should attract the missile.  After 
 releasing the Flares, evasive action must be taken to distance the aircraft
 from the flare as soon as possible.

 TO USE

 When the missile warning indicators(page94) display an incoming infa-red 
 guided missile and the onboard computer gives an audible MISSILE WARNING 
 then press F for decoy and flare will be released.

                              FLIGHT OPTIONS 

 MAIN MENU

 When CAP initially loads, the game will revert to an automatically scrolling
 demonstration mode.  To escape from this click the left mouse button.  If the
 game is in flight mode, quit back to the Main Menu by pressing SHIFT & ESC.

 THE MAIN MENU SCREEN OFFERS 7 SELECTIONS:

 CONFIG

 - Selecting this option allows you to select both SIMULATION and 3D WORLD
 options.

 SIMULATION

 - Allows you to alter the simulation realism levels.

 CONSTANT SPEED

 - If you possess a fast running machine which makes the game almost 
 unplayable, select ON - the game will run slower with an increase in
 smoothness.  If you are using a slower machine, select OFF.

 MAXIMUM ENEMY AIRCRAFT

 - The number of enemy aircraft in the skies at any one time can be chosen.

 PERSONAL DAMAGE

 - Make your aircraft invincible by disallowing damage.

 WINGMAN DAMAGE

 - Turn OFF for invicible wingmen.

 UNLIMITED WEAPONS

 - Turn OFF an unlimited number of weapons selected in the hanger deck.

 CRASH DAMAGE 

 - If you collide with the ground you will not be destroyed if turned OFF.

 HILL COLLISION

 - Attacking certain targets maybe difficult due to the surrounding hill.  
 Select OFF to fly straight through them.

 CAMPAIGN MISSION START

 - Choose between beginning each mission of your campaign over your home 
 carrier or over the target.  RANDOM positions you radomly over either thew
 carrier or target.

 3D WORLD 

 VIEW DEPTH

 - Select high for terrain in the distance to be visible with a slightly
 slower screen update rate.  LOW offers a faster sim speed with slightly less
 distance detail.

 DAY/NIGHT

 - ON allows both day and night flight.
 - OFF allows day flight only.

 CLOUDS

 - Turn clouds ON or OFF.

 VISIBLE PAYLOAD

 - In-game payload simulation ON/OFF.

 TRAINING

 A mode which allows both novice and experienced pilots to fine-tune their 
 skills in a large number of areas.  Flight training and weapons training
 against both air and ground targets is offered to hone your skills in all
 areas of combat.

 FLIGHT DECK/AIRBORNE

 Select from any of the options and then from either FLIGHT DECK or AIRBORNE
 depending upon whether you wish to practice take-off or miss take-off and 
 begin your training at altitude.  Note that the flight deck or airborne 
 options have allready been selected - select catapult and you can begin at
 10,000 feet! If an option under the weapons heading is selected, you will 
 enter the hangar deck for armament before training can commence.  This will 
 allow you to practice take off with a full payload.  

 PILOT ROSTER

 Allows you to select a new identity, starting your first mission as a rookie
 pilot, or to continue a saved game, taking on the experienced or veteran 
 status.  You must enter the pilot roster before entering into a campaign,
 single mission or training session.

 The list of pilots is displayed with their current status, rank and squadron
 identity.  VFA-9 is the call sign of the Roosevelt's F-18 squadron, VF-41 is 
 the F-14 call sign.

 KIA 

 List pilots who have been Killed In Action.  Needless to say, these pilots
 are no longer in the condition to commence any further combat air patrols.

 RET

 List pilots who were retired from the force, primarily due to injuries 
 caused by ejecting from aircraft too often.  DISHON records pilots who were
 given a DISHONOURABLE discharge due to malingering.

 MIA

 Refers to Missing In Action, usually after being shot down over enemy
 territory.

 POW 

 Is a Prisoner Of War.  You held to the end of the conflict in an iraqi
 detention camp.

 The Pilot Roster Screen offers four sub-menus - Select, Info, Erase & Save.

 SELECT

 - Allows an existing pilot to be chosen continuing from a previous campaign.

 INFO

 - Offers a pilot information & statistics.  Rank, previous mission success
 rates.  Squadron details etc, are recorded here.

 ERASE

 - Highlight an existing pilot select erase to remove the pilot from the 
 roster and sign on as new rookie pilot.  You're then asked for the pilots 
 name, callsign and the type of plane to be flown.  Choose from (F)fighter - 
 F-14 or (A)attack - F-18.

 SAVE 

 - Save your current pilot and campaign position to disk.  Even though your
 campaign & pilot status are continually updated through the operation, you are
 required to save your pilot to disk if you wish to leave Desert Storm to 
 continue at a later date.

 SERIAL LINK                                 _
                                          _ //
 Allows the option of connecting 2 Amiga's\X/ together for joint manoeuvrers - 
 or for a friendly dogfight.  To activate the Serial Link ensure that a null
 modem cable is linkingthe two computers together via the serial interface.

 Each player then selects a pilot from the Pilot Roster Screen.  Next, choose
 which player and machine will be the master.  This machine will have to do 
 more processing than the slave machine and therefore advisable that the 
 faster machine is used for this.  If both machines are similar, choose which
 player wishes to pilot records to be updated to be master.  That player will
 then choose Serial Link from the Main Menu.

 Both machines then exchange information.  When this is complete, the master 
 player will then select a mission, arm the aircraft at the hanger deck and 
 enter the mission.  The slave player will do like wise and join the master 
 player.  Then decide if you're enemys or friends!!!

 Serial players may choose any flight options - training, single mission or
 campaign.  Enter a campaign by selecting a veteran pilot and then exit to 
 return to the Main Menu.  Then select Serial Link.

                             MISSION SORTIES 

 INSTANT FLIGHT

 When you first enter CAP, the instant flight option is an ideal selection
 for novice or rookie pilot.  This option places you above an enemy airfield
 piloting an F-14 and allows the rookie to familiarize his or herself with
 the flight controls.  If night skies cover the Gulf.  I gives the cockpit 
 instrument lighting and maybe used in conjunction with your wing mounted 
 Infa-Red imaging equipment.  V selects a forward looking mode, whilst C 
 offers a view of the COMED - with map view of the surrounding area.

 SINGLE MISSION

 This option allows the individual sortie against a single selected target. 
 Both air and ground attack are available although your role on a mission will
 depend on the type of mission.  Air to Air combat can be undertaken using
 either aircraft but if a group attack role selected with an F-14, you will 
 escort attack aircraft into the target.  Select the mission from the list of
 targets:

 FLEET BARCAP

 With enemy aircraft approaching the fleet, intercept aircraft must be 
 scrambled to stop them.  F-14s are the ideal deterrent although.  F-18s 
 equipped with Sidewinders or Sparrows are mighty adversaries.

 BRIDGE BUSTING

 Bridges were a primary target during the initial phases of Desert Storm.
 Taking out bridges meant that a vital artery of communication, not to 
 mention troop and vehicle movement, was cut.

 TRAIN BUSTING

 Similar to Bridge Attack, trains allowed for rapid movement of troops into 
 the fighting zones.  Railways were vital to the Iraqi war effort.

 CONVOY STRAFE

 The movement of large numbers of troops or armoured vechicles across both Iraq
 and Kuwait made important strike targets for Allied pilots.  Strafe relates 
 to the use of heavy cannon fire at a target.

 RUNWAY STRAFE

 Air supremacy was perhaps the overriding objective of the early campaign.  
 Knock out the runways and aircraft cannot mobilize.

 AIRFIELD SHELTERS

 Aircraft are important flight equipment were stored in bunkers and shelters
 close to airstrips.  Airstrips can be repaired relatively easily.  Aircraft 
 and precision equipment suffering a direct hit cannot.

 AAA SUPPRESSION

 Anti-Aircraft artillery shells are fitted with altitude and proximity 
 fuses.  This means that if shell passes close enough to the aircraft, it will
 detonate - a direct hit is not required - and the shrapnel can prove 
 extremely hazardous.  The altitude fuse detonates the shell when it passes
 a certain altitude - the altitude that the gun crew calculates to be your
 height.  Ignore them at your own peril!

 SCUD STRIKE

 Scud missiles posed a huge threat to the stability of the Gulf region during
 the war.  This mobile long range missiles were capable of carrying nuclear,
 chemical or massive conventional warheads and were the most effective long-
 range weapons of mass destruction available to the Iraqis.  The destruction
 was imperative.

 CONVOY STRIKE (MARITIME)

 Both Warships and cargo vessels would take up a convoy formation for maximum
 defensive capabilities.  These targets combine massive defensive firepower
 and small targets.

 OIL RIG

 Oil Rigs were erected in the Gulf in peace time to extract oil.  During the
 conflict, they were strategically important and often housed enemy heavy
 artillery emplacements.  These were notoriously difficult to attack from 
 the air.

 GUN BOATS 

 Fast, well armed and tiny, these targets provide perhaps the most testing of
 air-to-ground strike scenarios.

 TARPS RECON

 Before heavy bombing of a target could be undertaken, important reconnaiss-
 ance, including filming of the target, must be carried out for later 
 analysis.

 SURFACE THREAT

 Surface attack upon the fleet by the enemy was an ever present threat.  
 Attacks would comprise a number of the vessels with a variety of attack/
 defence mechanisms and required both courage and accurate attacks from the
 aircrews.

 Once the option is selected, choose whether to take-off from the flight deck 
 or remove the need of take-off and appear over the target.

                               THE CAMPAIGN      

 THE WAR ROOM

 When entering into a campaign you must go to the Pilot Roster Screen to 
 select a pilot identity.  After this, you will find yourself in the 
 Briefing room.  After completing a mission, you will be debriefed and then 
 will return to the war room before re-entering the briefing room to be given
 your next mission.  This is because once you enter Combat Air Patrol, the 
 campaign and first objectives have been decided.  After this inital mission,
 ground troops are mobilised and it's all down to you.

 You will then be able to go to the War Room, The Briefing Room.

 MEDICAL OFFICER 
                
 Once a mission is selected, you may decide, for any number of reasons, you
 wish to sit out a particular sortie and let the battle commence without you.
 To do this, you must lie - plain and simple.  Any fighter pilot worth his
 salt is eager to do his job and to sit it out is irreconcilable.  Unless,
 of course, you're ill!!!  Visit the Medical Officer, by selecting the
 appropriate sign, and plead your case... although be warned, don't push your
 luck too often as you may be discharged for malingering.

 FLIGHT DECK

 This option takes you straight onto the flight deck of the Roosevelt, 
 missing out the hangar deck altogether.

 MESS ROOM

 Return to the Pilot Roster using this selection.  If another pilot is 
 selected, you will return to the main menu.

 HANGAR DECK

 Once you have been briefed, your next step is to select the appropriate
 armament for your F-14 or F-18.  To do this, select hangar Deck from the
 corridor sign-icons.  This will take you to the deck below the carrier
 runway to where your aircraft awaits.  If the mission is an A/A intercept
 or escort, you will find an F-14.  A/G missions require the F-18.

 DEFAULT 

 This option immediately arm the aircraft with a selection of missiles.  It
 can be used to quickly arm your aircraft with a range of weaponary which can
 then be slightly modified using the remove and add options.

 CLEAR

 Strips the aircraft of all payload.  All pylons are free to accept armament.

 ADD

 The missile-shaped pointer is already in add mode.  This mode is necessary
 to place missiles on free pylons.  With the pointer in add mode, move the 
 pointer over the required weapon and the pointer will become that weapon.
 Then hold down the left mouse button and drag the weapon to any available 
 pylon.  Arrows below the aircraft will indicate which pylons are suitable for
 holding that particular weapon.  When the arrows become highlighted, release
 the mouse button to mount the weapon on the pylon.

 REMOVE

 Click on the remove icon and the pointer will change.  You may now place the
 pointer over a missile on any pylon and remove it with by pressing the Left
 mouse button.

 Once your aircraft is fully armed, select PILOT to move to the carrier flight
 deck and begin the mission(press F1 to enter the cockpit).

                          FLIGHT CONTROL SYSTEMS

 THE COCKPIT DISPLAY 

 As you enter the cockpit, you see the control and instrument panels, the 
 outside world, through the cockpit windows, and the HUD display(Head Up
 Display)upon which flight and all combat information is displayed.

 THE CONTROL PANEL 

 Both the Tomcat and the Hornet share a number of controls and instruments 
 which are essential for any aircraft.  These instruments, such as altimeters
 and speed indicators may however be displayed in a slightly different manner,
 often using a variation upon a standard instrument.  

 INSTRUMENT DESCRIPTIONS

 HUD- Head Up Display.  A glass projection screen upon which flight information
 is displayed which was developed to allow easier information accessibility for
 the pilot.  Three scale measurements for speed in Knots, Heading and Degrees, 
 and altitude in feet are displayed.  The artificial horizon can be seen in the
 centre whilst other flight and combat information is displayed in the form of 
 discretes(letters displayed on the HUD)to the bottom of the screen.

 DIRECTION W INDICATOR

 This symbol shows the actual direction the aircraft is heading.  If the 
 symbol was ahead of the aircraft in the air, the aircraft would fly straight
 through it.  Note how the discrete drops down the screen as a climb is 
 acheived.  This is because the plane cannot ascend directly to the required 
 point.  The interia upon the aircraft is such that it may well be pointed in
 the required direction but heading to a position below that point as the 
 aircraft attempts to adjust its course.

 GUN 250 WP! 150

 This discrete would appear to the bottom left of the HUD and tell the pilot 
 the HUD mode, which weapon is selected, which waypoint he is heading towards
 and the distance in nautical miles to the waypoint.  Note that in A/A or A/G
 mode, the pilot tells which mode he is in by the weapon name on the HUD.

 WAYPOINT DISCRETES - ACTUAL DISCRETE LEFT & RIGHT DISCRETE

 Your flight path towards the target is defined by waypoints.  The first 
 discrete must be aligned centrally on the HUD.  When it is position, that
 means that you are currently heading in that direction towards the next
 waypoint.  Deviation from this course will move the waypoint discrete to the
 left or right of the central position.  If you are flying way off target, the
 second discrete will appear on the left or right of the direction indicator.
 Adjust your direction in the direction of the discrete and the waypoint 
 discrete will reappear.

 CANNON DISCRETE

 Align the cannon discrete with the target discrete and fire.

 AIRCRAFT RADAR TARGET DISCRETE

 When the radar is operational and the T command is given, the radar will scan
 for possible targets.  When a target has been selected, this discrete will 
 surround it.  To select other targets, continue pressing T.

 MISSILE RADAR TARGET DISCRETE

 Your A/A missiles house radars.  The tracking of this radar is shown by this
 diamond shaped discrete.

 TARGET LOCK-ON DISCRETE

 When both the aircraft radar and the missile borne radar lock-on to a 
 designated target, this discrete appears on the HUD display.  Launch your
 missile.

 CIRCULAR SIDEWINDER DISCRETES

 Fire when the enemy target is within this discrete and there is a high strike
 probability.

 DROP BOMB TARGET TRACKING DISCRETE

 With a freefall bomb selected, this discrete will show precisely where the 
 bomb will impact - in the centre of the circle.

 CROSS HAIR TARGETING DISCRETE

 For all A/G missiles except freefall bombs, a cross hair sight allows the 
 missile alignment with the target.

 FUEL

 Indicates the amount of fuel in the tanks.

 RPM

 Revs Per Minute.  Shows how much power the engine is producing.  The higher
 the reading, the faster the aircraft is able to go and the faster the fuel is
 used up.

 L & R ENGINES

 Allows manipulation of RPM on the F-18.  A maximum of 100% is available with 
 an extra 63% using full afterburners on take-off and in combat.

 ANGLE OF ATTACK

 Attack of the aircraft upon the atmosphere rather than in combat.  When an
 aircraft rises, the angle of attack of the wing surface upon the surrounding
 air increases.

 GEAR

 Raises or Lowers undercarriage, required for Taking-off and Landing.

 HOOK

 Use when landing.  On approach to landing, the arrestor hook must be lowered.
 When the plane lands on the runway, the hook will catch upon a strenghtened
 cable which is designed to slow down the aircraft and assists in bringing the
 plane to a halt.

 FLAP

 Flaps operate automatically and increase lift at slow flight speeds.

 BRAKE

 Air Brake to retard forward motion and assist landing.  Brake should be 
 released when taking-off.

 AIR-SPEED INDICATOR

 Calibrated in Knots, measures your forward speed.

 VERTICAL SPEED INDICATOR 

 Measures relative vertical speed.  Basically, how fast you are climbing or
 falling.

 ALTIMETER

 Utilises external barometric sources such as air pressure to measure the 
 altitude of the aircraft.

 RADAR ALTIMETER

 Uses radar to give a precise reading on distance from rising & falling
 ground.

 ARTIFICIAL HORIZON

 A useful visual indicator to show at a glance just where the horizon is.
 Co-ordination can become impaired in combat and this instrument allows the
 pilot to line up the aircraft with the horizon.

 GRAVITY INDICATOR 

 Measures the force in G's, upon the aircraft - and pilot.

 HORIZONTAL SITUATION DISPLAY

 Shows current heading.  North is straight up.

 MFD(MULTI-FUNCTION DISPLAY)

 A Multi-tasking display linked to a central processing unit which also 
 controls a number of vital functions such as target identifaction, weapons
 selection and several other important functions. 

 F-14

 The F-14 has two MFD modes.  Toggle between them using the 1 key.  Note that
 two radar-dependant MFD modes cannot be displayed simultaneously.

 R: Range indicator, calculated in nautical miles.
 V: Velocity in mph.
 H: Heading in degrees.
 A: Altitude in feet x100.

 F-18

 With the F-18's two MFD'S, identical information is not allowed to be 
 displayed on both screens simultaneously.  

 The armament display simulates the wings and pylons of the F-18 allowing an
 instant view of the remaining weapons.  The arrow points to the currently 
 selected pylon whilst the name and quantity of the weapon are shown at the
 bottom.

 MFD display 2 is the vertical situation radar display and offers a view
 straight ahead from the nose cone of the aircraft.  The central circle 
 indicates the presence of an aircraft forward and above the F-18.

 The horizontal situation display offers a plan view from above the aircraft
 illuminating the space immediately forward of the F-18.  Your aircraft is at 
 the bottom/central position and a position directly ahead is indicated by the
 top/central marker.  Any aircraft displayed on the screen is therefore to the
 front and either left/right according to it's position to the left/right of 
 the central markers.

 The final MFD display is the Instrument Landing System display.  This is used
 when on approach to your home carrier for landing.  The Roosevelt appears as
 a plus sign on the screen.  Align the plus with the central line and the 
 carrier is directly ahead.  Use this mode in conjunction with the HUD ILS
 mode.

 The F-18 has two MFD's, both of which display the same information but allow 
 the pilot access the two screens simultaneously.  Toggle between the modes
 using the 1 key for the left display and the 2 key for the right display.

 RADIO

 - Allows contact with the airbase and friendly units - keeping you informed
 of campaign events as they unfold.  An airborne refuelling, additional support
 etc etc, may be requested using the radio.  There are five radio channels
 available to you.  To operate, press N and the radio will scan for an 
 appropriate channel.  The frequency selected will be displayed to the top 
 right hand side of the screen.  The radio set has two tuning channels, 
 allowing the guard channel to be simultaneously tuned together with any other
 channel.  Once the channel is selected, the appropriate information will be
 communicated.

 GUARD CHANNEL

 Use the guard channel to find out what your wingmen are doing.  They will tell
 you amongst other things, that they are: waiting to take off, launching,
 forming up for flight to the target, onroute to the next waypoint.  Being an
 attack run etc.  The guard channel is constantly tuned using one of your 
 channels.

 CARRIER ATC CHANNEL

 Tuning to this channel informs the carrier you wish to land.  The carrier atc
 will inform you when you have clearance.  If you have an emergency use the 
 emergency atc frequency.

 CARRIER EMERGENCY ATC CHANNEL   
       
 If you have an emergency and need to land straight away use this channel.

 SEARCH AND RESCUE CHANNEL

 If you know you are going to eject it is wise to try and inform the SAR 
 services.  Tune into this channel for as long as possible before ejecting to 
 increase your chances of being picked up.

 AIR TANKER CHANNEL

 When you need to re-fuel fly to a position behind a tanker and select this
 channel.  The tanker crew will give you permission to refuel and tell you 
 when your tanks are full.  If there are several planes waiting to refuel you 
 must wait for your turn.

 THREATS/WARNING INDICATOR

 - Displays information about enemy missiles.  Allows evasive action without 
 the need for visual recognition.

 F-14

 The threats warning indicator fitted to the F-14 is mounted either side of the
 MFD.  Radar lock-on warnings are displayed to the right whilst the fuel, fire
 and missile warnings are to the left.

 RADAR: Indicates that a radar of some sort is locked-on to your position.
 
 A-A: An A/A missile guidance system radar is locked-on to you.
 
 S-A: A A/G missile guidance system radar is locked-on to you.
 
 FUEL: You are low on fuel.  Refuel as soon as possible.
 
 FIRE: Either the port or starboard engine is on fire.  Shut down the
 appropriate engine.
 
 IRM: Infa-Red Missile lock-on.  An IR missile is currently in flight and 
 heading towards your position.  Evasive action or flares must be used.

 RGM: A Radar Guided Missile is homing in on your aircraft.  Emergency evasive
 action or decoy chaffs must be used.

 F-18

 The F-18's threats display is a circular instrument mounted to the bottom 
 right hand side of the instrument panel.  The Hornet is in the centre of the 
 screen and the enemy aircraft are indicated by a red contact point.  Friendly 
 aircraft are in green and tracking enemy missiles are displayed in yellow.  If
 an enemy aircraft moves within close range of your aircraft, the display
 automatically rescales itself  so close-in targets can be displayed with
 accuracy.

 KEYBOARD/MOUSE/JOYSTICK - (K, M, J)

 Toggles between Keyboard, Mouse and Joystick control.  Keyboard control is 
 recommended although other selections are very much down to individual 
 taste.

 MOUSE

 When using the Mouse, the left mouse button is used to fire the currently 
 selected weapon - as indicated by the weapon selection discrete.  Moving the
 mouse will directly control the aircraft.  Target lock-on is attained using 
 the right mouse button and this is the equivalent to the T command for other 
 options.  When using LGB's, use right mouse button for lock-on and the X key
 to unlock.

 JOYSTICK

 Option only has fire and movement options.  Target lock-on is acheived by
 using T.

 THRUST
 (SHIFT F1-F10)
 
 Increases/decreases RPM from 10% to 100%.  Thrust must be at least 100% for
 take-off and may need to be augmeted with afterburners.  To ignite engines,
 use left or right ALT keys.  Use SHIFT + Function keys to change the power
 output of the engines.

 AFTERBURNERS
 (HELP/DELETE)

 Afterburners allow increased power for use in take-off and combat scenarios.
 Four levels of afterburners are offered, each accessed by pressing the HELP
 key from 1 to 4 times.  DEL reduces the afterburner by level by 1.
 Afterburners are usually used to assist take-off, especially with a heavy
 payload.

 LAUNCH
 (L)

 Signals for the flight-deck crew to activate the launch mechanisms aboard the
 Roosevelt.  A slingshot accelerates the aircraft to take-off speed in a few
 seconds and eliminates a great deal of pilot error on take-off.

 GEAR                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
 (G)

 Raises/lowers the landing gear.  Gear must be raised after take-off and 
 lowered before landing.

 BRAKE
 (B)

 Powerful air brakes which should be released before take-off and applied 
 either during landing approach to slow the aircraft in flight or directly
 after landing.

 ARRESTOR HOOK
 (A)

 Raise/lower hook to engage on flight deck arresting mechanism.  Lower before
 landing.
 
 DIRECTION
 (Cursor Keys, Mouse, Joystick)

 Activates wing ailerons and tailerons to maneuver aircraft.

 SELECT HUD MODE
 (TAB)

 Toggles between A/A and A/G and Instrument Landing System(ILS) modes.  HUD 
 display indicates current mode.

 SELECT WEAPON
 (CTRL)

 Selects individual AA & AG weapons, depending upon current HUD mode.

 TARGET LOCK-ON
 (T)
 
 Allows selected target to be tracked by firing mechanisms.  Essential for 
 attack accuracy.

 FIRE
 (ENTER)

 Fires any weapon currently selected on the HUD.

 EJECT
 (BOTH SHIFT KEYS)
 
 Activates ejector seat for use in extreme emergencies to abandon aircraft.  
 Hold down both shift keys down for about 1 second.

 ILLUMINATE COCKPIT
 (I)
  
 Turns the cockpit instrument lighting ON, for night missions.

 COMEND 
 (C)
 
 Selects the combined map, Electronic Display unit.  Displays aircraft 
 position via satellite imaging equipment.

 INFA-RED FORWARD POB
 (IF AVAILABLE)- (V)

 Toggles COMED into forward looking IR, display monitor.

 ZOOM IN & ZOOM OUT
 ([,]&*,/)

 Zooms in on currently displayed image.  In cockpit, zooms in on outside
 scenery.

 ROTATE EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL VIEW
 (1-9)

 As if an external camera was circling the aircraft to give a 360 degree view
 angle.  Note to A600 users: Where a numeric keypad is not available, number 
 keys 4-9 allow for a view manipulation.  Key 4 immediately moves to the
 internal or external views to a central/forward view.  Keys 5-6 pan the
 external views up/down.  7-8 Zooms in/out on both internal/external views and
 9-0 rotates all views to the left/right.

 ROTATE
 ( (,) )
 
 Rotates view angle as if the camera were circling the aircraft.

 TIME ACCELERATE/DECELERATE
 (Z, SHIFT+Z)

 Accelerate time in steps of x2, x4, x8, x16 using the Z key.  Decrease time
 using SHIFT+Z.  Time advance is useful for covering long distances in a short
 space of time whilst deceleration is useful for dogfights and attacking land-
 based targets.

 RETURN TO BRIEFING ROOM
 (SHIFT ESC)

 Takes you back to the briefing room ready for another mission.

 VIEW MODES

 F1 - Toggles between current view mode and cockpit.

 F2 - Toggles between cockpit view and external view.  The external view seen
 depends on the view selected by the number keys but is aligned horizontally
 with the aircraft whatever the later position of the aircraft.

 F3 - Fly-past mode.  A stationary camera tracks the aircraft as it flies past.

 F4 - Locks aircraft onto target.  Keep pressing F4 to lock-on to alternative
 targets.

 F5 - Views target from any land based targets.  Re-pressing F5 will allow you
 to view your current position from all the targets in range - there may be
 many!

 F6 - Satellite view.

 F7 - Toggles between external and previous views.

 F8 - Gives view of aircraft from Theodore Roosevelt flight deck.

 F9 - Follows missile into target.  Continue pressing to view any other 
 missiles and bombs currently in flight.

 F10 - View through selected weapon imaging equipment.

 \ - View all aircraft and/or ships currently threatening or interacting with
 friendly forces.

                              FLIGHT INSTRUMENTS  

 After selecting either the Hangar Deck or Instant Flight options and loading 
 your aircraft with the appropriate payload, you find yourself lined up on the
 Flight Deck of the Roosevelt.  Your HUD display will indicate which catapult
 you are currently on and your selected aircraft will lie in silence, waiting
 for you to fire the jets into life and ignite your afterburners.  The catapult
 uses steam power to throw the aircraft along the runway and accelerates the 
 plane to a speed of approximately 150Kts with the help of the aircraft 
 engines.  However, when the aircraft is fully laden with its operational 
 payload, it may not reach a high enough speed to attain take-off velocity.
 Therefore a fully-argumented take-off may be required whereby the afterburners
 are used to produce more thrust on the take-off.  If the plane loses height
 when leaving the runway, it may be necessary to jettison the payload as a
 trade-off for gaining height.  It is sometimes necessary to actually nose the
 aircraft downwards to gain speed before pulling up!  A third option is to 
 eject if the drop is to great.  Engine fires on take-off also require similar
 emergency action.

 Looking down the length of the flight-deck, you will first need to select the 
 appropriate level of engine thrust for take-off.  Pressing both ALT keys will 
 bring the engines to life but you must then bring both engines to 100% thrust
 by pressing SHIFT & F10.  Afterburners then should be used to produce the high
 amount of extra thrust required for take-off.  Afterburners are a ring of 
 nozzles around the exhaust of each engine which spray fuel into the path of
 the superhead air blasting from the engines - allowing this extra fuel to
 ignite and in the process creating extra thrust.  Help operates the after-
 burners - pressing 4 times takes them upto maximum whilst DEL reduces after-
 burner levels.

 With both afterburners on full and the engines producing 100% thrust, the 
 aircraft is prepared for take-off.  Operation mode, either keys, mouse or
 Joystick must be selected by pressing K, M or J.  When prepared for take-off 
 and engines are producing maximum thrust, pressing L will activate the 
 launching mechanisms and throw the aircraft forwards and off the end of the 
 runway.  Once off the end of the flight deck, you must first gain height 
 then withdraw the undercarriage (press G).  If you end up in the drink after
 take-off the carrier's SAR chopper should initiate a Search & Rescue mission
 to locate you and pick you up.  The success of this SAR will depend on your
 position form the Carrier.

 Once the flight level has been attained, the appropriate HUD and MFD readouts
 need to be found.  Use the TAB key to toggle between the HUD modes.  A/A
 missile mode is the first HUD display, the second mode is A/G missile select
 and the final mode is ILS.  The HUD also displays speed in KTS, altitude in
 feet and heading in degrees.  Note that the triangular waypoint indicator is
 located along the heading bar.

 Select the requires MFD by pressing 1 key(F-14) and the 1&2 keys(F-18) then 
 activate the radar by SHIFT & R.  Depending upon the MFD mode selected, you 
 will now be in a position to track and identify enemy aircraft.

 The aircraft may now be flown using any of the selected methods- Joystick,
 Keys or Mouse- and may be viewed in flight from any one of a wide range of 
 exterior viewing modes.  Pressing F1 allows a view of the aircraft form the
 outside.  The angle at which the plane is viewed may then be manipulated 
 using keys 1-9 on the numeric keypad(not A600) which cover every 45 degree
 angle in a circle around the horizontal of the plane.  Angles between these
 45 degree divisions may be viewed using the () keys.  Return to the cockpit 
 view is by repeating the keystroke or pressing F2.  Zooming in/out can be
 attained by pressing the [] or */ keys.

 The function keys allow even greater manipulation of the view area and are
 outlined in the VIEW MODES section of this Doc.  Most selections can be 
 readily understood by simple loading the game, pressing the appropriate button
 and watching what happens.  It is worth noting however that the F4 and F5 keys
 have a useful tracking element to them which allows the target object and
 aircraft to keep in alignment whatever the aircraft direction.  This lets the 
 pilot line-up with the target and is a function that is extremely useful in 
 planning your bombing run.  The F9 key allows a birds-eye view from the rear 
 of the missile in-flight - allowing you to follow the missile down to the 
 target.  Repeats of the F9 key will toggle between different missiles.

 Another vital key is the / key which views all mobile units, both friendly and
 unfriendly in the vicinity of both the aircraft and the carrier.  Continue 
 pressing the / key to move from unit to unit.

 Taking each in turn, the strike capabilities of both aircraft may be 
 examined.  Due to the different roles played by each aircraft, the missile
 systems and MFD displays are correspondingly tailored to suit the individual
 aircraft.

 The next step towards your target destination.  To do this, the waypoint 
 discrete must be followed.

 F-14

 The MFD allows locked-on target identification, bearing, velocity and altitude
 details.  When attacking an airborne target, the above information must be 
 used then select the appropriate weapon with the required range and attack
 capabilities.  Press TAB until A/A mode is displayed on the HUD and then 
 select the appropriate missile by pressing CTRL - toggle between Sidewinder,
 Sparrow or Pheonix (Short, Medium & Long Range).

 When attacking an airborne target, the target must be within range of the 
 selected missile and inside the weapons seeking capabilities.  

 Once the target is in your radar, pressing T will lock the tracking mechanisms
 onto the target.  The MFD will then display an I message.  This means that you
 are Interrogating the aircraft, basically asking it whether it is friendly or
 not.  The message F for friendly will be displayed after a short while.  If 
 the I message continues to be shown, it can be taken that the aircraft is not
 making the correct response and therefore is an enemy plane.  Line up the two
 radar tracking symbols and fire the appropriate missile using either the 
 Return key or mouse/joystick- mounted fire button.  Only flares and emergency
 evasive action can save your enemy now!

 When in the situation of being attacked by either an enemy aircraft or SAM 
 fire, there are a number of measures you can take.  Your first warning that
 you are in danger of being fired upon will come from the instruments mounted
 alongside the MFD.  When a heat seeking is in flight and tracking you, the IRM
 display will notify you.  Flares must be dropped and evasive action 
 undertaken.  Similarly, when a radar-guided missiles are tracking you, chaff 
 must then be used to decoy.  The RGM display will alert your attentions to a
 Radar Guided Missile.

 F-18

 The F-18 is a multi-role strike/intercept aircraft and therefore carries a 
 large payload of both A/A and A/G missiles .  Missile mode may be selected 
 using the TAB key which will display A/A and A/G modes, followed by the ILS
 mode in sequence.  Once A/A is selected, current A/A missiles may be chosen
 using the CTRL button in the same way as the F-14.  A/G missiles are also 
 toggled between using the CTRL key.

 Air attack is, again, identical to the F-14 attack mode although the F-18 is
 equipped with fewer A/A missiles and has less operational effectiveness in 
 terms of both speed and maneouvrability.  Since the F-18 only engages in A/A
 combat as a self-defence mechanism, Pheonix long-range missiles are not made 
 available to the F-18.  Any other A/A missile can however be used and all A/G
 missiles are available, depending upon mission objectives.

 Enemy aircraft may be viewed on either MFD display by using the 1 or 2 keys 
 and indentified using the same Interrofation techniques as for the F-14.

 When approaching a surface target, the appropriate attack strategy must be 
 used for a successful strike.  Be warned that SAM activity will be high 
 around most targets.  When attacking a target, use the F4 key to line up with
 the target before making your bombing run.

 ARRESTED LANDINGS

 The player will find both attack and landing procedures are made easier by
 maintaining the time on x1.  This gives the novice pilot time to select 
 weapons or appropriate flight-paths and makes the whole affair somewhat less
 messy!

 This is the suggested procedure for landing on the carrier.

 INITIAL ACTIONS

 1> Head to a point a couple of miles away from the carrier.  The F-18 MFD
 display facilities a Landing System Display to help keep you informed on the 
 direction in which the Roosevelt lies - although more often than not, visual 
 contact may be maintained as the Roosevelt shows up brightly coloured against 
 it's background of blue.  The F-14 does not possess this MFD facility.

 2> Switch to ILS mode on the HUD by pressing the TAB key.  This will activate 
 the Instrument Landing System which offers important approach information to 
 the pilot about the required angle of descent and altitude.

 3> Tune the radio onto the carrier atc using the N key.

 4> Engines must be cut to around one third power(SHIFT/F3)- under 200Kts.  Use
 the Air Brakes (B) to cut power even further when required.

 5> The carrier notifies you that landing clearance has been granted, head 
 towards the carrier on final approach.

 FINAL APPROACH

 1> Lower the undercarriage (G) and the Arrestor Hook (A).

 2> Line up with the carrier landing strip directly ahead of you and running 
 away from your line of descent.

 3> The ILS display indicates whether your approach is too high or too low or
 too either side of the Glidescope(a projected perfect approach angle of
 descent).  In ILS mode, if the horizontal bar is above the centre of the 
 screen, you are too high and must lose altitude.  If the vertical bar is to 
 one side, you must head in that direction until the bar moves into the centre.
 This will indicate when you are on the correct flight path in line with the 
 direction of the runway.  Note that the vertical bar may be centred even when
 you are flying across the flight path, not directly towards it.  When both 
 bars are centred, the correct angle of approach is attained.

 4> Approach speed must be adjusted according to the payload carried.

 5> Maintain a steady descent until the touchdown.

 6> When you hit the deck, cut all engines using the AMIGA keys and hit the 
 brakes  using the B key(if not already applied).  Advanced pilots will then 
 hit full military engine power (100%, no afterburner) on touchdown to enable
 the plane to take-off if arrestor cables are missed.  Navy pilots try to 
 catch the third cable.  If the cables are missed, engines will be on full 
 power and will allow immediate take-off.  This is referred to as BOLTER.

 7> Press SHIFT & ESC to enter mission debriefing.

 REFUELLING
                _______________________________________________
               /DATA                    V                      \
               |------------------------+----------------------|
               |	APPROACH SPEED	|  ANGLE OF ATTACK     |
               | F-14	   123KTS	|      10 DEG          |
               | F-18      134KTS	|      ?? DEG          |   
               \________________________|______________________/             
   
 1> Identify your tanker unit via your radar and MFD displays.  You will
 recognise the tanker by a friendly interrogation message and the height and 
 speed at which it is travelling.  The tanker will circle around a 
 predetermined point and at a predetermined altitude.  The tanker will cruise
 at around 250kts.

 2> Once the tanker is in Radar contact, switch to A/A mode and lock-on to the
 tanker.  The lock-on discrete will then display the target distance in the
 bottom right hand corner of the HUD.  This will enable you to monitor the rate
 at which you are closing on the tanker.

 3> Match your heading and altitude to that tanker and move slowly up behind
 the tanker.  Smoothness of maneouver and maintaining a constant altitude are
 the secret.  Use the rudder keys <> to change heading as the tanker circles.

 4> Close on the tanker, cutting the engines and using the airbrakes (B) to
 slow your progress where necessary.

 5> The trailing fuel line or drogue is manoeuvered by the tanker crew and
 contains a strong magnetic attachment to facilitate the mating with your 
 aircraft.

 6> With persistence a contact will be made and refuelling will commence.  
 Airborne refuelling is notoriously difficult to perfect but with a delicate
 touch and tenacity, you should succeed.

                               HOW TO SURVIVE 

 17 HANDY TIPS FROM THE 'ED SCIO SCHOOL OF FLYING 

 Don't fly slow and low! - you're a sitting duck.
 
 Don't fly everywhere with afterburners on! -use accelerated time to save fuel.

 If you're being escorted, let the escorts do their job - dont stray to far.

 In a campaign, try to take out the radars and SAM sites early on.  It will 
 make later missions easier.

 If you're using SLAMS then do what their title suggests - stand off.

 Try to fly above the threat envelop - out of AAA range.

 If you have a long way to go, fly at a cruising altitude(30,000ft)saves fuel.
 
 Don't waste your countermeasures.  If you can see a missile coming or you know 
 where it was launched from, you can out manoeuver it - hit full 'burner and 
 head towards it, roll 90 degrees and pull hard on the stick a few seconds
 before impact.

 You need to deploy a flare or chaff don't hit it a lot of times (unless there
 is a few missiles up your backside)wait after each release to see if the 
 missile is decoyed.

 If the enemy has fired a semi- active radar guided missile and are about to be
 destroyed by one of your missiles  then their missile will not guide.  You 
 should be safe.

 If you are at low level in a mountinous area and the weapon is being fired at 
 you use terrain masking -put the mountain between you and the missile\gun.

 If you are stalling at low level, hit full 'burners, clean up your plane(gear
 up, air brakes off)and if your situation is really desperate dump any heavy
 ordnance.  If you have the altitude it is better to nose down and get the 
 plane to return to controlled flight.

 Your plane is damaged and you know you cannot make it back to the carrier, 
 head as for south as possible, and tune into the SAR channel.  It is the best
 to eject at slow speeds at altitudes above 1000ft.  The further south you make
 it and the longer you are tuned into SAR the better your chances of being 
 rescued.

 A pilot will be Retired from active duty if he sustains 3 or 4 ejections, 
 depending on injuries.  This would mean the end of a campaign for a veteran
 so to avoid this in the plane that is low on fuel for instance you could try
 to land on a road or on the desert.

 To try this you should have released the external stores to lighten the plane 
 for as low on approach speed as possible.

 If your surface radar warning light illuminates it will allow the Iraqi 
 gunners more time to bring their weapons to bear.  This will effectively
 increase the range at which they will be firing at you.  It may also result
 in IAF pilots vectoring towards you.  Apart from destroying these sites you 
 could go to low altitude(under 500ft) to break the radar lock.

                                ENEMY TARGETS   

 There are of course a large number of targets which are of considerable
 importance to your campaign in terms of both strategy and outright victory.
 For example, Scud missile sites and Republican Guard units are of direct
 military importance whereas radar emplacements and key bridges are more 
 strategic targets.

 Both type of target is vulnerable to airborne strike and should be undertaken
 with equal urgency.  Below are some of the targets you will be required to
 attack.

 AIRCRAFT

 MiG-21

 The MiG-21 FishBed is the most widely used fighter in the world.  It has a 
 maximum speed of Mach2.1(about 1400mph)and an absolute ceiling altitude of   
 59,000.  All models of this versatile fighter possess a spin scan radar which
 provides both target illumination and HUD information.  The FishBed offers 
 limited ground attack and reconnaissance capabilities but is a worthy opponent
 in A/A combat holding SARH and IR missiles together with a 23mm cannon.

 MiG-23

 The next generation of MIG was totally redesigned and bears no resemblance to
 the MiG-21.  With an Tumanskii afterburning turbofan, the flogger is a highly
 manoeuverable multi-role aircraft which can carry a wide range of intercept
 and strike weaponary and deploy them with the utmost effectiveness in
 conjunction with the high-lark radar system.  This allows look-down-shoot-down
 capabilities against the aircraft at a very low level plus a lock-on target
 tracking mode at up to 34 miles.

 MiG-25

 A high-altitude interceptor, the Foxbat has a Mach 3+ capabilities at height
 and carries a powerful array of SARH and IR A/A missiles.  Little attempt was
 made to follow the Foxbat medium to low altitude combat proficiency.  Instead,
 stand-off attack capability at height over long distances was the main focus
 and in this role the Foxbat excels.

 MiG-29

 Similar in look to the F-18, the fulcrum is an all weather single-seat 
 interceptor capable of speeds in excess of Mach 2.  It carries both medium
 and short range A/A missiles together with a single 30mm cannon and is an 
 extremely manoeuverable adversary.

 SUKHOI SU-24

 Similar in both design and function to the F-111, the fencer is a low altitude
 supersonic attack aircraft capable of speeds in excess of Mach2.  It has eight 
 weapons 'pylons and is capable of carrying a wide range of both nuclear and 
 conventional bombs.  The main fuselage contains 2 30mm cannons and model 
 variations include the E which is equipped for electronic warfare.

 SUKHOI SU-25

 The Frogfoot is a single-seat twin-engined ground attack aircraft in a similar
 vein to the A-10 Thunderbolt.  It has a top speed of approximately 1000kmh and
 can carry upto 400kg of bombs on its eight underwing pylons together with a 
 single 30mm cannon mounted under the fuselage.

 MIRAGE F1

 The Mirage is equally suited to either attack or intercept roles - and is 
 superbly proficient in both.  Capable of mach 2.5 at 70,000 ft, the Mirage 
 F1e carries two DEFA 553 cannons plus an armament of Wasp, Martel anti radar
 and AS.30 ASMS.  A/A arsenal includes both Sidewinders and the Marta R.530.
 This is a potent multi-role aircraft.

                      SURFACE THREATS AND TARGETS     

 AIRFIELDS

 Vital to the coalition air superiority, the heavy bombardment of enemy
 airfields was the overriding objective of the early campaign.  Knocking out
 the airfields, runways, comms. towers and hagars- meant that the threat from 
 any Iraqi airforce bold enough to challenge Allied warplanes would be 
 effectively negated.

 When attacking airfields, the first pass should be decisive as un undamaged
 airstrip will be used to mobilise defending aircraft.  Heavy artillery and 
 surface-mounted  anti-aircraft missiles usually surround such strategically
 important targets.

 ANTI-AIRCRAFT ARTILLERY

 The destruction of AAA is often important to provide a clean attack route to
 the target.  If AAA is ignored before the primary objective is attacked, the
 strike may be considerably more dangerous.

 Anti-Aircraft artillery shells are fitted with altitude and proximity 
 fuses.  This means that if shell passes close enough to the aircraft, it will
 detonate - a direct hit is not required - and the shrapnel can prove 
 extremely hazardous.  The altitude fuse detonates the shell when it passes
 a certain altitude - the altitude that the gun crew calculates to be your
 height.  Ignore them at your own peril!  
         
 ARMY BASES

 Permanent or semi-permanent bases for both armoured and light infantry are
 important objectives.  Though modern warfare is considerably more remote 
 than it was, the targeting of infantry units is always an unfortunate 
 necessity.  If the war was to enter an infantry mobilisation phase where
 hand-to-hand combat became necessary, it is important to ensure that enemy 
 forces are both weaker and have a low level or morale.  Also, bases have a 
 higher concentration of infantry and so provided ideal targets.

 One major negative point is that these bases are heavily protected by SAMS,
 both permanent and portable and that small arms fire in considerable - a
 threat which cannot be ignored even by modern attack aircraft.

 ARTILLERY

 Used to bombard a variety of land based targets, the attack of artillery 
 emplacements was necessary to ease the pressure on ground troops and clear
 the path for any retaliatory action.  Mobile SAMs may be used in protecting 
 these targets as may air cover.

 BRIDGES

 Bridges were a primary target during the initial phases of Desert Storm and
 meant that the long term support effectiveness of the enemy would be impaired.
 Taking out bridges meant that a vital artery of communication, not to mention
 troop and vehicle movement, was cut.  These targets are also only lightly
 defended.

 FACTORIES

 During the Gulf war, it came to light that seemingly innocent factories were
 in fact producing military hardware such as chemical weapons and missiles.
 These installations were of interest to the allies.

 INFANTRY

 The backbone of any army, even today, is the infantry unit.  Iraq put a great
 deal of faith in its infantry but continued bombardment and attack reduced the
 morale of even the elite groups to a very low level.  When the ground fighting
 began the Iraqis surrendered in their thousands.

 MECHANISED INFANTRY

 Infantry with both troop transports for fast deployment and Armoured Personnel
 Carriers for support made difficult targets for airstrikes.  In times when
 Mechanised Infantry were mobilising in a strategically sensitive area and air
 attack was the only quick response, you may find yourself confronted with 
 these difficult targets.
 
 Being small and highly mobile, rocket and heavy cannon strafe are the ideal 
 weapons to be used against this kind of relatively soft target.

 NAVAL

 After the invasion of Kuwait, the Iraqis found themeselves in possession of
 a small yet potent navy.  This comprised mainly small, fast gunboats, some
 mounted with portable SAMs, some with Exocet missile launchers.  These
 extremely capable missiles were used with great effectiveness against the 
 British Task Force in their successful mission to recapture the Falkland
 Islands in the early 1980s.  Fired from a distance, they hug the sea, 
 evading ships radar until the very last minute - which is usually too late.
 Immediate neutralisation of these targets, which can do a great deal of 
 damage to a fleet, is important.

 OIL RIGS

 Oil Rigs were commonplace in the Persian gulf.  During peace times these would
 pump at a full capacity.  During war, the pumps were silent and the only noise
 would come from the mobile SAM sites targeting allied aircraft.  It was 
 essential therefore that these isolated pockets of enemy activity were removed
 at once and a well placed SLAM or volley of rockets should be enough to 
 silence them permantly.

 RADAR SITES

 Vital for the tracking and monitoring of air activity is the use of ground 
 based radar.  They are the eyes and ears of Iraq in the war time allowing 
 them to track attacking aircraft and alert SAM sites across the country.
 HARM was specifically developed to knock out radar.  Fire one of these, 
 count to three and its gone.

 SAM SITES 
       
 Surface to Air Missiles are usually used from semi-permanent SAM installations
 set in key areas such as close to airfields and important factories.  They 
 launch a variety of missile which have various tracking mechanisms which are
 considerable threat to aircraft.  IR heat seeking missiles are the most 
 frequently used because of their fire and forget nature.

 When attacking SAM sites, both Zuni rockets and freefall/laser guided bombs
 are effective.

 SCUD MISSILE SITES

 Scud missiles posed a huge threat to the stability of the Gulf region during
 the war.  This mobile long range missiles were capable of carrying nuclear,
 chemical or massive conventional warheads and were the most effective long-
 range weapons of mass destruction available to the Iraqis.  The destruction
 was imperative and the Iraqis knew it.  Therefore they were continually on
 the move using the cover of night to avoid satellite tracking.  Once located,
 they were quickly and decisively visited by the coalition strike aircraft.

 SHELTERS & BUNKERS

 Important personnel and eqiupment were housed in heavily fortified bunkers.
 They were often partially submerged for strength and constructed from
 reinforced concrete several feet in thickness.  Bombing raids were frequent
 upon such targets because the Iraqi war machine was controlled by the 
 generals within.  Pinpoint accuracy is required on these targets because 
 only a direct hit with a large weapon would pierce the blast proof shell.  LGB
 and SLAM are ideal for these targets.

 SUPPLY TRUCKS 

 Convoys of trucks carrying anything from food to ammunition would wind their
 way daily towards the Iraqi front lines.  These supply vehicles kept the 
 Iraqi army on it's feet.  If the coalition could break the lines of supply,
 then front line units would be severely weakened.  Supply trucks are not 
 designed to withstand attack but to carry large loads and can therefore be 
 regarded as soft targets.  As such they are susceptible to both cannon and
 rocket attack as well from more potent weapons.

 TANKS

 Heavily armoured, quick and small, tanks are difficult targets, whatever the
 weapon.  Yet the Iraqis had invested heavily and had one of the largest forces
 of tanks outside the superpowers.  These possed a threat to ground troops and
 must be taken out.  A well placed Maverick or two will take care of them.

 TRAINS

 Another supply link was Iraq's extensive rail network.  Rapid troop and supply
 deployment could be minimised by destroying both train and track.  Mavericks,
 Zunis and drop bombs will leave just a cloud of smoke in your wake.

 =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

        ;::::::;;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::L::::::::::::::::
       ::::::;::::::;::::::::::::::::::DoC TYPED BY PoB;;;::;;;;:;;:;;;
      :::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::O:;;;:::::::::::::
        :CRACKED BY SKUZ! & THE LoOnS::::::::::;:;::;n:::::;;:;:;:::;::::
         ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::S;;;:;:;;L:::::;:::::
      ;;;;;;;:::::::;;;:::::::::::::::::;;::::::::::::::::::::o:;;::::::   
     :::::::;:;::::::::::::;::::::;;;:::::DoC SuPpLiED BY PYTHON::::::::
      ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::n::::::: 
    ;;;;;;;;;;;::::::::::::::::;;;;;;;;;;;::::::::::;;;;;;:::;S::::::::::           

____ ____________________________________________________________________ ____
\\ /::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::\ //
:\/::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::\/:
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

        /--------------------------*----------------------------------\
       ;|GREETZ FLY OUT TO:PYTHON/LoOnS : SKUZ : PRODIGY : WOLVERINE :|,
        |PAZZA/LSD : TROUT : KANE : SCOOTER : CRYSTAL : SK!N : AMBL!N |
        |  : SKID ROW : BrandY/SLP : EEK A MOUZE : UNREAL : NISSAN :  |    
       / RYGAR : BASER EVIL : SPOOK : NAVY : QUARTEX! : DECADE : CYGNUS\
      :\: RAZOR 1911 : GLOBAL OVERDOSE : PARADOX : FAIRLIGHT : MINISTRY/:
      . |: DYNAMIX : ANTHROX : MR BRINE/VOODOO DESIGN : BILL/ASYLUM : | . 
        |: MR WATTS/TRANCE : \/IDEO /\/ASTY : HYBRID : CHEM/SUBMISSION|
        |.;.;.;.;.;.;+ ALL THE KEWL ELITE MEMBERS AND CONTACTS.;.;.;.;| 
        \--------------------------*----------------------------------/       
        .                                                              :
               (-*-)ANOTHER FINE PROD BY PoB/THE LoOnS(-*-)
 -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
  NOTE TO DaBbLe: Sorry to hear that you've left the scene m8, thanx for all
     the warezz ya supplied me and THE LoOnS in the last 2 years.  CYA M8.   
 -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=        
 
 (ALL T|-|ESE |<E\x/L U|< EL|TE BOAR|)S |\|O\x/:
 -----------------------------------------------  

                   9 Lives            - +44 (0)592744821
                   Soap City          - +44 (0)946823351
                   Ultimate Dream     - +44 (0)222495919
                   Unknown Pleasures  - +44 (0)20429917
                   Low Life II        - +44 (0)614993786
                   Oasis	      - +44 (0)386553876
____ ____________________________________________________________________ ____
\\ /::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::\ //
:\/::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::\/:
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
			  THE LoOnS - SiMPLY NUTTY!
          
