
                            [41m[32m FANTASTIC DIZZY [0m
                                 [41m[32m(AMIGA)[0m

                               HOW TO PLAY

[1mHOW TO PLAY THE ADVENTURES OF DIZZY[0m
Daisy has been captured by the Evil Wizard Zaks.
Only Dizzy is brave and clever enough to rescue her from a terrible fate.
Leaving the safety of the Yolkfolk's treehouse village, Dizzy sets out on
his greatest adventure!

As you walk Dizzy around, he will be prevented from adventuring further
by various puzzles.
You can solve these puzzles by using the objects found along the way.
To pick an object up stand Dizzy over it and press the RED button. Dizzy
can only hold 3 objects at a time.
To take a better look at them press the FFWD button. To solve a puzzle,
find the correct object and put it in the correct place, eg. put the
key down over the door to unlock it.

                             HINTS AND TIPS

[1mLIFE FORCE AND DAMAGE[0m
Dizzy starts the adventure with two lives. Dizzy will meet all kinds
of evil creatures. Some may kill Dizzy immediately while others will
only damage him a little bit. If Dizzy takes too much damage he will
lose one of his lives. Eating fruit found along the way will heal
some of his damage. You can also win bonus lives by solving the sliding
puzzles.

[1m250 MAGIC STARS[0m
Around the map there are 250 spinning stars. Each of these represents
one magic unit. You must eventually collect all 250 in order to enter
Zaks' magic castle and complete the game. You can use the number
of stars remaining as a guide to how far through the game you are.

[1mAN EXAMPLE PROBLEM AND HOW TO SOLVE IT[0m
Later on in the game, high in the tree house there is a platform
which is too high to jump onto. Attached to this platform is a rope
and a hook. At another part of the map close by there is a weight.
You can pick up the weight, take it to the tree house, attach it
to the hook and bring the ramp down to where you can jump on it.

[1mHOW TO PLAY THE SLIDING/SWAPPING PUZZLE[0m
If you come across one of these, there is a bonus life to be had if
you can solve it before the egg-timer runs out! You'll see a
flashing square over the top left block of the scroll. You can move
this UP, DOWN, LEFT, or RIGHT, using your control pad. Press and
hold the RED Button whilst pushing in a direction to swap the square
you are on with the adjacent square. In this way you can unscramble
the picture. Watch out for some variations on this puzzle - you'll
have to work them out for yourself!

[1mHOW TO USE THE ROPE[0m
The rope is handy for getting across chasms which are too wide to
jump. Unfortunately, there has to be a hook over the chasm for
Dizzy to attach his rope to. Put Dizzy in a good position for
starting his swing, and then use the rope by pushing your RED Button
while the rope is in any space on your OBJECTS HELD window in the
bottom panel.

[1mPARTS OF THE CONTROLLER AND HOW TO USE THEM...[0m
                      AMIGA-CD³² gamepad:
LEFT 		Move left
RIGHT		Move right
UP		Jump (Use with left and right to jump diagonally)
RED-BUTTON	Pickup/drop objects/open doors/talk to
		character/use lift
RWND-BUTTON	Options and Load/Save menu
FFWD-BUTTON	Status Screen

                 AMIGA joystick and keyboard:
JOY-LEFT 	Move left
JOY-RIGHT	Move right
JOY-UP		Jump (Use with left and right to jump diagonally)
JOY-FIRE	Pickup/drop objects/open doors/talk to
		character/use lift
ESC		Options and Load/Save menu
SHIFT		Status Screen

P		Pause/unpause
SPACE		Select menu item
CURSOR KEYS	Move through menus

Note: ESC on the titlepage will exit back to Workbench.

                            THE STORY SO FAR

[1mTHE STORY SO FAR.....[0m
The land of the Yolkfolk had always been a safe and peaceful place.
The Yolkfolk themselves, with their oval shaped bodies and bright
red gloves and boots, lived in treehouses high in the forest.
They spent their days exploring the forest and mining diamonds,
to trade with the trolls in the neighbouring town of Keldor.
This had been the tradition for as long as anyone could remember...
that was until that fateful day, when a dark stranger came to the
land.

The stranger, known as Wizard Zaks, wore a long black cloack and
a pointed hat which shaded his glowing eyes. He took over Keldor
Castle, and summoned the head of the Yolkfolk.
Grand Dizzy went to the castle, only to be greeted by armour clad
trolls carrying axes. He introduced himself as a friend, but
Zaks ordered the guards to seize him. Grand Dizzy cunnungly
somersaulted over their heads and escaped. From that day forward,
the Yolkfolk have lived in fear of Zaks and his evil powers.

One Day, Dizzy and his girlfriend Daisy, were walking in the
forest when the sky turned black, and Zaks cast an evil spell
over the Yolkfolk. A large bird swooped down and carried Daisy
away to Zaks' newly build castle in the clouds.
It is now up to Dizzy to undo Zaks' evil spells on his friends,
and rescue Daisy from his evil clutches.

[1mMEET DIZZY'S FRIENDS[0m
[4mThe good magician Theodore[0m
This is the guy who can give you an extra life if you complete
a sliding puzzle.
[4mShamus the leprechaun[0m
Things are never boring while this happy Irishman is around.
[4mThe Shopkeeper[0m
This angry character drives a hard bargain but you'll need to
meet his terms before you can complete the game.
[4mPrince Clumsy[0m
A lonely Prince in search of true love.
[4mBlackheart the Pirate[0m
'Mean, evil and nasty.'. That's how his friends describe his
good points.


                             FANTASTIC DIZZY
                  has been produced by the CHAMELEON team
They are:
Derek Leigh-Gilchrist: Programmer (16 bit)
Ashley Hogg: Programmer (16 bit)
The Oliver Twins: Original Design & Programming (8 bit)
Lyndon Sharp: Programmer & Music (8 bit)
Paul Griffiths: Programmer (8 bit)
Ed Hickman: Programmer (8 bit)
Leigh Christian: Artist (8 bit & 16 bit)
Joby Wood: Artist (16 bit)
Paul Oglesby: (8 bit)
Khalid Karmoun: (8 bit)
Darren Yeomans: Artist (8 bit)

The CHAMELEON Associates involved in this project are:
Peter Williamson: Programmer (8 bit)
Matt Simmonds: Music (16 bit)
Matt Gray: Music (8 bit)

                               Codemasters
                  [3mTyped in and edited by Hexaae (2019)
                     adapted from Megadrive manual[0m



              Fantastic Dizzy AGA for Amiga 1200/Amiga 4000.
              ----------------------------------------------

                Release version >> Mon Aug 22 18:59:26 1994
                -------------------------------------------

Fantastic  Dizzy  AGA  is  a great improvement over the basic A500 version!


                         Here is a bit of info...
                         ------------------------


           Dizzy runs in harmony with the Amiga Operating System

     Dizzy is Hard-disk installable & can be run from Workbench or CLI

     Dizzy now contains a SAVEGAME option (press ESC during game...!)

                     Dizzy doesn't multi-load anymore

        Dizzy will always run at 50 frames per second (hopefully!)

  Ingame screen is 32 pixels wider & 24 pixels taller than A500 version 

    Background parallax plane is bigger, more colourful and it scrolls!

     NEW 24bit colour fades (check those morning-day-eve-night fades!)

                  Depack times have been greatly improved

           7 extra colours for sprites (BOBS) on the gamescreen

     The game panel has been improved to display objects & damage etc.

   Extra hidden puzzles and an improved cheatmode (look for the Symbol!)

  Various graphical enhancements (e.g. Armorog sprites,cloud masks etc.)

              Zak's Tower subgame now has parallax scrolling








                         SAVEGAME MODE INFORMATION
                         -------------------------

If  you  press  the  'ESC' button while playing Fantastic Dizzy you will be
presented with menu containing four options:-

                              Return to game
                          Quit back to titlepage
                        Load a saved game from RAM
                        Save a game position to RAM


If  you wish to save your game position to RAM then select the option 'Save
a  game position to ram'.  Your game will be saved into RAM and you will be
returned back to the game.

If you wish to load a game position from RAM then select the option 'Load a
saved  game from ram'.  The last saved position will be loaded and you will
be returned back to the game at the saved position.

Unfortunately  there wasn't enough time to put in a savegame to DISK option
(we didn't sort out an 'ARP.LIBRARY' or 'REQ.LIBRARY' licence!) - SORRY!


 NOTE: If you need to quit back to DOS then press 'ESC' on the titlepage.
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------



                      HARD DISK INSTALLER INFORMATION
                      -------------------------------

To  install  Fantastic  Dizzy  AGA onto your hard-disk just load workbench,
insert  Fantastic  Dizzy disk one and double-click the HDINSTALL icon.  All
you have to do now is sit back and smile!


             A message from the authors of Fantastic Dizzy AGA
             -------------------------------------------------


Fantastic  Dizzy was originally written for the NES a few years back, since
then  we  (Purple  Haze) have coded the Sega Megadrive/Genesis versions and
the Amiga A500 and Amiga A1200/A4000 (AGA) versions for you to enjoy!

The  original A500 version of Fantastic Dizzy was technically great and was
presented well...  So why did we earn less that 3000 pounds from it???

Piracy!!   You  Amiga  owners have finally done it!  Software houses are no
longer producing Amiga games!!!  The future looks bleak...

UNLESS...  You start buying games!!

You can start by buying the ORIGINAL of FANTASTIC DIZZY AGA or CD32!!

If  we  don't  make  any  cash out of this version we will NEVER do another
Amiga game, Ha!







                                  Credits
                                  -------

                Amiga programming by Derek Leigh-Gilchrist

                        Amiga graphics by Joby Wood

                 Amiga music by Matt Simmonds and Ash Hogg

                       CD32 music by Tim at Codies!

         Original Sega version programmed by Derek Leigh-Gilchrist

                   Sega subgames programmed by Ash Hogg

                     Sega graphics by Leigh Christian

                   Additional Sega graphics by Joby Wood

        Original NES version programmed and designed by The Olivers





         Fantastic Dizzy AGA is a Purple Haze Production (C) 1994.
         ---------------------------------------------------------
