Short:    HD Installer for Killing Cloud
Author:   girv@girvnet.org.uk (John Girvin)
Uploader: girv@girvnet.org.uk (John Girvin)
Type:     game/patch
Requires: Installer 43.3+, WHDLoad 14.0+


TITLE

    WHD_KillnCloud release 1


DESCRIPTION

    This is release 1 of a hard drive installation package for the
    Vektor Grafix game "Killing Cloud".


REQUIREMENTS

    Requires an original copy of the game.

    Requires version 14.0 or later of the WHDLoad package by Bert Jahn.
    WHDLoad is available from:

            http://www.whdload.org

    Please consider registering this fine package to help support future
    development of hard drive installers for your favourite Amiga games!


INSTALLING THE GAME

    Extract all files in the product archive to your system.
    They will be extracted to a drawer called "WHD_KillingCloud"

    Double click on the "Install" icon present in the extraction
    directory and follow the instructions given by the Installer
    program.

    The game will be installed to a directory you select on your
    hard drive. You will be alerted if installation fails for any
    reason.


PLAYING THE GAME

    Open the game drawer created during installation and click on the
    "KillingCloud" icon. The game will then start.

    The following keys may be used while the game is running:

      F10: quit game and return to Workbench


BUGS/CAVEATS

    This product is provided "as is" and is used at your own risk.

    The author is not liable for any loss or damage caused by the
    use or misuse of this product.

    When running the installer it is advisable to disable any virus
    checking or debugging software you may have running.


AUTHOR

    John Girvin

    E-Mail: girv@girvnet.org.uk

    WWW:    http://www.girvnet.org.uk

    ICQ:    15651883


HISTORY

    R1      11/2001
            - first release
            - supports two versions of the game
            - removed self modifying code
            - removed cpu speed dependent delays
            - removed manual protection
            - enabled instruction cache


LICENCE

    This product is copyrighted freeware.

    No payment is required to use this product, although donations
    of any kind are always welcome!

    © 2001 Halibut Software. No modifications may be made to any
    files or data that comprise the product without the express
    consent of the author.

    Freely distributable, provided other licence requirements are
    adhered to. No charge may be made for this product except for
    reasonable handling and/or media costs.


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

    "Killing Cloud" is © 1990 Vektor Grafix

    WHDLoad is © Bert Jahn

    Thanks to Angus Manwaring and Carlo Pirri for supplying disk
    images, testing and for their infinite patience.

