Kelly X
Typed by Belgarath


In Space No-One Can Hear You Glow...

As a penniless orphan with no past and precious little future, 
there's a limited amount of choice in life. Moreover, with the job situation 
in 2476 worse than it ever was during the 20th century, a chap has to take
what he can get. Guess that's why I'm here.

My mother got wasted by black marketeer organ-peddlers when I was about four.
Or maybe three. They used to say I had her eyes - I reckon someone else's got
em now... Didn't know my father; doubt if Ma did either.

I was the 24th luckless kid to enter the Municipal Child Care Unit that month.
The staff there didn't have much imagination, so I got stuck with this dumb name.
Oh, by the way I'm X, Kelly X. I'd change it by deed poll if I had the money;
change it to Harry X, hur hur. But that costs. Maybe I will if I survive this job;
the money's good enough but then maybe not - the prospects of surviving are zilch.

I'm what the white shirts back at the Peace Foundation - er, that used to be 
Greenpeace before they got whacked out by the CIA a couple of years ago - I'm
what the white shirts called a 'Clean-Up Merchant'. One of a select band 
of no-hopers who are dumb enough - or poor enough - to risk their necks in the
pursuit of cash.

Some rebel in the Government has leaked info regarding the illegal dumping of
nuclear waste by rogue nuke stations outside the spacelanes. Incapable of sitting
back and letting such environmental travesties go without action, the Peace
Foundation gets bozos like me to go on clandestine missions to clean up the area.
The brief's simple: destroy the radioactive canisters; destroy the guardian fighters
destroy the stations and, if I can manage to live long enough, attempt to knock out
the master station at the heart of it all.

It's a dirty job - but then I'm a dirty fighter.


The Art Of Fighting Dirty In Toxic Waste

The clean-up craft flies in 3D space and is controlled by mouse or joystick.
Movement right and left rotates the ship clockwise and anti-clockwise respectively.
Pushing forward and back causes the ship to dive and climb. The fire button or
left mouse button activates the lasers.

The radar on the right allows enemy objects to be homed in on: Government vessels
appear as yellow signals, and radioactive canisters as blue. Each trace is connected
to a stalk which signifies the relative position of the ship to the players' sight
horizon. A stalk with the dot at the top is 'above' the players' vessel, and vice versa.

To target an enemy craft, the signal must be a dot which sits on the blue line extending
away from the player. Enemy vessels require several laser blasts, while the canisters
need only one. A 'Kill' is rewarded with a score which is added to the running total.

Work clean: blasting ships and canisters frequently causes a chunk of debris to drift
away from the explosion. All debris must be destroyed in a zone before the mission can
proceed on the next level.

Contact with canisters or enemy shots depletes the ships' shields - theres only one
shield, and when it's gone, so are you babe...


Loading Instructions

Amiga: Insert disc in Drive DF0. Program will load and run.
Atari ST: Insert disc in Drive A. Program will load and run.


Controls

J       Toggles between mouse and joystick control while title screen is displayed.
F1-F10  Selects different radar ranges.
H       Hyperspace: moves ship to a random destination. Use as a last resort to get out
        of sticky situations, as it reduces ship's shield levels.
SPACE   Increase speed.
\       Decrease speed.
P       Pause.


Typed by Belgarath