                  NEW ZEALAND STORY HINTS

Typed in by SIDEWINDER for LSD.


To find the following time warps you will always have to fire, but
sometimes you will have to jump and fire, or get onto a ship.
HINT: At level 2-2 there is a ledge with a green arrow pointing right.  If
you jump up into the water you will miss out half the level.

END OF LEVEL GUARDIANS
1-4 The Whale
To avoid getting killed before he swallows you. (i) Without a ship; stand
as far left as you can without reaching the spikes. (ii) With a ship; stand
behind him or on him.  When inside, keep firing while avoiding acid drops

2-4 The Octopus
Stand on the top ledge and keep firing bombs at him.  If you haven't got
bombs before you reach him, then kill a few baddies and soon one is sure to
drop some bombs.

3-4 The Mummy
Start on the lowest platform and fire at the stomach, then jump just before
the mines hit you.  Carry on until she blows up.

4-4 The Ship
Go down to the bottom right of the screen as far left as possible.  Now go
straight up and you will find a kiwi.

5-4 Wally Walrus
Shoot the balloon he is on.  Bombs, lasers, and fire balls are best.  Also
dodge the bombs he is firing.

1-1  TIME WARP LOCATION
On the left hand side of the top ledge opposite Kiwi.  Jump and fire left
(if you have bombs you must get as far left as possible).  This takes you
to level 1-4 where there are 2 Extend Life Pills.

1-2  TIME WARP LOCATION
From the start there are ledges.  On the top ledge fire left.  This takes
you to level 1-2 where there are 2 Extend Life Pills

1-3  TIME WARP LOCATION
From the starting position there are 12 ledges and a wall on the right.  Go
to the other side of the wall and fire at the second ledge from the bottom.
Ship needed.  This takes you to level 2-1. near the end of the round.

1-4  TIME WARP LOCATION
If you take the time warp at 1-1 it takes you to level 1-4, where the
Extend Life Pills are. Fire left and it takes you to level 2-1

2-1  TIME WARP LOCATION
Above your Kiwi friend there is a small tunnel which takes you to some
stair like ledges which lead to a small cavern where there are 2 fruits.
Fire at the fruit on the right.  Ship needed to reach tunnel.  This takes
you to level 3-4

2-2  TIME WARP LOCATION
When you come to the first green arrow pointing upwards, there are two
baddies.  Fire at where they first appeared.  Ship needed this takes you to
2-2.  Just jump to save Kiwi.

2-3  TIME WARP LOCATION
Follow the first water you come to.  At the end are 2 ledges with spikes
below.  Stand on one ledge and fire at the other and this takes you halfway
through the level.

2-4  TIME WARP LOCATION
Stand on the ledge leading to the Octopus.  Face right and fire and warp to
3-1. Takes you past some deadly bullets.

4-1  TIME WARP LOCATION
Above the Extended Life Pills there is a tunnel.  Fire above the 2nd letter
from the right.  You must be on the duck ship or it will not work. this
takes you to 4-2

4-4  TIME WARP LOCATION
Below the Kiwi to the left are some spikes.  Stand on the left hand side of
these.  Fire right while doing tiny jumps and you will warp to 5-1.

End.
