
Magic Pockets - Help file
-
Here's a comprehensive collection of hints and tips I have gathered and noted
over time. Hope they will be of some use to you, and if you know anything I
don't, PLEASE don't hesitate to mail me... enjoy!
                                                                 - dELTA tX

                                (LEVEL CODES)

           Level 1         Level 2         Level 3         Level 4
          ---------       ---------       ---------       ---------
          01-"1053"       06-"6245"       12-"3505"       19-"8498"
          02-"3425"       07-"5284"       13-"0692"       20-"4370"
          03-"8282"       08-"4757"       14-"1786"       21-"3541"
          04-"4476"       09-"2818"       15-"9877"       22-"2823"
          05-"7766"       10-"1960"       16-"7962"       23-"1286"
          RC-"1467"       11-"6331"       17-"4125"       24-"6067"
                          BG-"8712"       18-"2219"       25-"5139"
                                          FT-"3123"       26-"4400"
                                                          TH-"2456"

These codes are for use with the US version. Note that whdload slave provides a
cheat to "simplify" them.

           Level 1         Level 2         Level 3         Level 4
          ---------       ---------       ---------       ---------
          01-"0011"       06-"0021"       12-"0031"       19-"0041"
          02-"0012"       07-"0022"       13-"0032"       20-"0042"
          03-"0013"       08-"0023"       14-"0033"       21-"0043"
          04-"0014"       09-"0024"       15-"0034"       22-"0044"
          05-"0015"       10-"0025"       16-"0035"       23-"0045"
          RC-"0016"       11-"0026"       17-"0036"       24-"0046"
                          BG-"0027"       18-"0037"       25-"0047"
                                          FT-"0038"       26-"0048"
                                                          TH-"0049"

Level Guide
-----------
Here's a world by world guide, with some hints... Warps take you to the next
world.

Different game versions:

There are at least 3 versions of the game. One of them is NTSC/US, and is identical
to the PC version. This one only has got the password system. In this version, there is no on-disk copy protection. There is a code question after you completed a level.
Contrary to the UK/PAL version, it is not necessary to move the joystick down on a tornado/cloud to trigger the spin. This makes the game easier, but can sometimes be annoying because spinning when you don't want to may bring you to places where you don't want to (ex: at world 1, level 4, spinning warps you to an upper platform, way back, and it's a loss of time, or at world 2, level 2, in order to reach some secret platform, you've got to put the mask on in order to jump on the cloud without spinning (or you cannot go down to the secret platform).

On this version, level 1 is different, a lot easier, and original UK level 1 is now at level 3.
Original UK level 3 has disappeared.
The funny thingconsequence of that is that you can warp to world 2 from level 1 AND from level 3. The silver chalice can be obtained only from level 3 in the NTSC version.

World 1
-
Level One (US version)

Warp: Get a teleport helmet (you just have to pick up the silver and gold stars
on the way) and go to the first room. Capture nasties for a silver then a gold star
to get another teleport helmet. You're warped to another room. Jump to the right,
pickup silver star and then gold star. Teleport.

Level One (UK version)/ Level Three (US version):

Warp: Get a Teleport Helmet and teleport to the first Room. Now get another
 Teleport Helmet - but before you pick it up collect a Silver Star. Teleport
 to Room 2 and pick up the Golden Star there. Teleport.
 (Variant: no need to get a silver star before entering room 2: get the large
 ice cream and capture the bat to get a silver star, then pickup gold star.)

Quickest Route to Warping:  Kill all nasties as usual (not capturing any)
 until you get to the second pair of green-blobs.  (Dont kill the frogs on the
 above platform just yet.) Kill the first one, and capture the second.  Pick up
 the Coin, collect the Cocktail Glass and throw a Big whirlwind to get four
 Coins.  Capture the frog on the platform above to get a Silver Star (thanks to
 the Gold Coins) and continue killing everything as usual.  When you reach the
 stack of Gold Coins with four gorillas, kill the first and capture the second
 to get a Gold Star.  Teleport to Room 1 and collect the Milk Bottle, Gold
 Coins and Mask.
 Now, being protected by the Mask, drop down to the Gold Coins and the
 remaining two gorillas WITHOUT killing the gorillas.  Collect the Gold Coins
 and break through the wall to the left.  Continue going left WITHOUT killing
 anything, collect the Bonus's and the Silver Star.  Now wait by the Bubble Gum
 Machine until it's safe to remove your Mask.  When it is, use the machine and
 float up and right towards the platform at the top right.  Collect the Gold
 Star - but becareful NOT to teleport.  Drop down right and capture a nasty to
 get a Silver Star - go back to the Teleport Helmet and teleport to Room 2.
 Collect the Bonuses and the Gold Star. Teleport.

Golden Chalice: Use the Teleport Helmet three times (don't use the teleport in the second teleport room, this is the warp to world 2)
In the third Room there is a Golden Chalice.
Collect this and you will start each level super-powered.

Level Two

This is the biggest level in the game. There are 3 exits, and loads of bonuses.

Fastest way to reach the exit (and get the bike toy):
Break all blocks below, go straight down where the slime creatures are. Go right, break the blocks and go down. Use spin to reach safely the bike to the right. Hurry up, or a caveman nasty will try to steal the bike. You can kill him before he does, or with a spin while he's riding it (but he's fast).
Get the bike, and ride to the left towards the exit.

Secret teleport helmet rooms:
1) diamond shaped room: may contain chocolate bonuses or other bonuses
2) stair room: may contain gold coins or sweets
3) sweet machine room. Contains a sweet machine
4) sweet room. Contains low point sweet items.

The stair room is visible from the normal maze, at the bottom left corner of the map, in the cells made of breakable blocks where there are flying creatures. The funny thing is that you can reach the stair room without having to teleport into it (and without time limit, then). Just reach the upper right cell (by a spin, and kill the flying creature with the spin if you can), break the 2 highest blocks, jump on the now broken wall, create a big tornado, throw it down, and spin to the left at the same time. The jump is high enough to make you reach the stair room (but it's a bug, you're stuck there, and you've got either to give up the game, or to enter a password).

Getting the big 20000 points cakes:

There are 2 big 20000 points cakes

1) When you choose the right/down/left route, you notice a big bonus cake below, which seems unreachable.
When you reach the hall with a bubble gum machine, which you can use to go up and reach the upper exit, you can also break some blocks below so you can access the blocked tunnel leading to the cake. By throwing the tornado up, you can break the first blocks in the tunnel, then go back to the bubble machine and fly to the tunnel. Break the remaining blocks and get it.

2) In the upper right corner of the map, upper route.

World 2
-
Level One

Warp:  Get a Teleport Helmet and teleport.  Then get another Teleport Helmet
 but before you teleport go round killing nasties until the NEXT nasty you
 capture will give you a Gold Star.  Now go back to the Helmet and teleport
 (make sure you dont kill any nasties on the way).  There will be a Sweet
 Machine to your right and a snake and a Silver Star to your left.  Jump over
 the snake, get the Silver Star then capture the snake to give you a Gold
 Star. Teleport.

Bonuses: At the start, go to left-most platform, throw a Big cloud and do a
 Big jump off it on to the platform above. There are some Points, a stack of
 Coins and a Silver Star to collect.
 Also, if you find a balloon in a teleport room, keep it until you find a
 cocktail glass. You'll then throw four balloons which turn into coins worth
 5OOO points each (also available on world 4)

Level 2 (Seven): at start you may have noticed some unreachable platform
(just like in level 1 but a little higher). You cannot get it now. Go your
way through the level, but when you reach a upper platform with lots of ungrown
plants, check for a hole in the ground. Jump there, and you get a bonus platform.
You also see the platform you could not reach when you were down there.
If you jump, you're too short. If you make a cloud and jump on it, and make a big
jump, you reach the upper platform again, and you miss. Instead, make a cloud, jump
on it but don't do the big jump but a normal jump (note: in US version this is not
possible since the controls have been simplified and you don't have to pull
joystick down to perform big jump, so this action is impossible UNLESS you've got
a mask on (there is a protection mask on some platforms you met above).
Ths Bros are reall vicious :)

Beat the Gorilla: If you can get the gorilla to follow you to the *very*
 far side of the screen (recommend the left side), he will be unable to
 attack you leaving him vulnerable to your punches.


World 3
-
Level One

Warp: When you find the Diving Helmet, go back to the first pools you passed
 at the beginning of the level. Jump in and explore. You will find Points, a
 Silver Chalice and a Teleport Helmet. Use the Teleport Helmet.

Silver Chalice: See above.

World 4
-
There are no warps here. Teleport helmets just take you to the exit if you
get 3 or 4 in a row. One level has a continue chalice after the third warp, but
it VERY difficult to reach without cheating.

Actually there IS a warp! Teleport rooms of world 4 are rarely visited because the
world is already super-hard without trying to get them (and die instead), so 
a little-known teleport room is at level 26: teleport once and you get a super
teleport room with lots of points 2 continues and ... a teleport helmet!
This teleport helmet transports you to world 1, with increased difficulty level!

So you can play the levels several times in the same game! But it's so difficult to
warp at this level that I doubt that anyone ever succeeded to do that without cheating.

Transport To Get Home: You must get a Teleport Helmet before time runs out (a
 Bubble will come and kill you). This teleport helmet must be obtained the classical way, first get a silver star, then a gold star.
 If you kill the nasties until you get a Silver Star, and
 then continue killing to try and get a Gold Star you will find that you don't
 have enough nasties to proceed.
 This level is impossible to complete if you've got 0 points (e.g.
 you used the level code). You've got to optimize the points to get first a
 silver star, then a gold star, and for that, one of the solutions is to get
 a fruit drink (green glass) on the level before (level 26). You'll see a large
 ice cream, which awards you 5000 points and it's easier to get the gold star.
 Entering the level with a score multiple of 5000 helps too (e.g. 20000).
 You get a silver star first. Then it's a piece of cake (but don't die since the next time there won't be any big icecream).
 You can complete the level with an easier trick, but you've got to sacrifice a credit: kill the nasties until you reach the fruit drink, get it,
 and die. Continue the game. You start the level again, but there's the big icecream bonus and you get the 5000 points, so you get the silver star faster
 (note: this doesn't work with the "teleport home" level code. Since your score is 0 it doesn't seem to retain the bonus from previous credit, use previous
 level code).
 Once you teleported, you'll have to "race" with snowmen on bouncing balls.
 Very easy, lots of points to collect. You've made it.
 
 There's a longplay on youtube (https://youtu.be/4Fe6eBw9aYA) showing some impossible feat: get teleport with just 1 gold star and no silver star. It's highly likely that the video uses
 a cheat at this point (maybe whdload version "T" cheat, existing since 2001...).

Bonus Objects
-------------
  Objects that show up on either the bottom left or right of screen are
what you will receive with the next nasty you Capture. The more nasties you
kill before a Capture increases the bonus you get. The first bonus's will be
sweets (points). After you have cycled through all the sweets you will start
getting power-ups. All sweets are shown on the bottom left of the screen, and
all power-ups on the bottom right.
  Here's the list of bonus's in the order they appear..

Sweets               Points

 Pod                  1OO
 Sugar Cane           2OO
 Ice Lolly            3OO
 Sweet                4OO
 Chocolate Bar        5OO
 Cup Cake             6OO
 Ice Cream            7OO
 Liquorice Allsort    8OO
 Wine Gum             9OO
 Coin                1OOO

Power-ups            Effect

 Silver Star         Use with Gold Star.
 Baby Bottle         Extra Life.
 Cocktail Glass      Throw four of the last sweet you picked up.
 Beer Bottle         Walk faster.
 Coffee Mug          Throw weapon faster.
 Tea Cup             Faster power up weapon (you can take 2)
 Bottled Brew        More powerful weapon (you can take 2)
 Long Glass          Next level, a large ice cream will appear (5000 points)
 Milk Bottle         Restores all lives.
 Gold Star           See below.

Gold and Silver Stars
-
Collecting Gold Stars reveals a bonus, what you get depends on how many Silver
Stars you have collected before.

No. of Silver Stars   Bonus

 No Silver Stars      Mask (Temporary Shield)
 One Silver Star      Teleport Helmet
 2+ Silver Stars      Bitmap Shades (Turn all nasties on screen into Coins)
                      Nails, Fireballs or Laser Helmet

Chalices
--------
There are (I think) Chalices dotted around the different worlds.

Here's a run down of what I know about them so far...


 Golden Chalice (Wrld 1, Lvl 1(UK)/3(US)):
  => Start each level Super-Powered (and also increases difficulty level)
 Silver Chalice (Wrld 2, Lvl One, World 3, Lvl One, also in some teleport rooms)
  => Add a continue
 Bronze Chalice: this is a legend, not all the stuff from Gods have been reported here :)


Other Hints, Notes and Secret Bits
----------------------------------
When you loose your last life keep your finger on the fire button and the
game will start again with your previous score (apparently).

Every 1OO,OOO points you become Super-Powered!

It IS possible to kill the Bubble that comes and decreases your powers every
so often. Normal shots do the trick if you position yourself properly, but more powerful shots such as fireball (gas), nails, are recommended.
You're awarded 5000 points if you do that.

At the end of a level you'll receive bonus's for...

Nasties killed - You'll get a BIG bonus for killing all the nasties.
Original lives - If you haven't lost more than five lives. Big bonus for not
                 losing any.
Helmet Bonus   - Any helmets you were wearing.
Toy Bonus      - Having the World Toy (from the end of the world).
Star Bonus     - For any unused Silver Stars you may have.
Warp Bonus     - Finding the secret World Warp.
Possibly more...

Keep an eye out for strange occurings! I saw a JellyBaby sweet I had just got
from a nasty, come to life and RUN OFF!! Weird eh?

That's all folks! Hope this helps somewhat, and PLEASE mail me if you have ANY
information Magic Pockets not included here, what I have is far from complete.

Thanks to Jeff Fabre (aka jotd) for the Magic Pockets HD installer, and for the original
help file he included.

- This file is comprised of things from the Aminet, stuff found by Jeff Fabre,
and mostly stuff I have found myself, all re-edited for your ease! -

Cheers!

dELTA tX (Aug^1997) -*- deltatx@dcandy.demon.co.uk
jotd (May 2001-2020)
