			  L A S E R   S Q U A D
		 	  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

INTRODUTION

Laser Squad is a one or two player tactical wargame system that
accurately simulates many aspects of individual level combat.It will
take some time for a new player to become familiar with all aspects of
the system, and we recommend that you load the program and go through
the first section of this manual which provides you with a basic guide
to playing the game. The second section should be treated as a
reference manual for the experienced players. Some features of the
system are not implemented with the five scenarios provides with the
main program, but the future scenarios will explore the versatility of
game play that Laser Squad can provide. The final section in this
booklet provides instructions for the five scenarios provided with the
main program.


 P A R T   1 :     PLAYING THE GAME

OVERVIEW

Laser Squad is played in a series of game turns. Each player, during
his turn, controls a small number of units which represent humans,
droids or other creatures. Each unit has its own individual name and
characteristics which affect the abilities and activity of that unit.
At the start of each game turn each unit is allocated a number of
Action Points (or APs) which are used for performing all activities of
that unit such as movement, combat, manipulating objects etc. Once all
action points are used for each unit, or the player does not wish to
use any more, the 'end turn' option is selected and the other player
(or the computer) takes his turn. The winner of the game is the first
side to accumulate 100 victory points. Victory points are awarded for
various things, such as eliminating enemy units or destroying certain
installations, depending on the scenario being played.


GAME SET UP

You will be asked whether you want a one player game or a two player
game. If you select the one player option the computer will take
control of the second side. You will then be asked what level you wish
to play at. The number of levels varies between scenarios and the
higher the level the more difficult the computer is to beat. If you are
playing with two players then only the player whose turn it is should
be allowed to see the screen.

Each player now selects equipment and deploys his units.


EQUIPMENT SELECTION

In each scenario you are allocated a number of Credits to spend on
armor, weapons and ammunition. The first thing you must do is select
armour for each unit. Your units are displayed on the left of the
screen and you select armour for each unit in sequence. Use the UP and
DOWN controls to select the type of armour and press FIRE when you are
satisfied with your choice. If you select a number from one to four
then the unit will be given an armour type according to the
specifications displayed in the table on the right of the screen. A
full explanation of armour is included in the reference section.

After you have allocated armour to each unit you then selcet equipment.
Initially the object selector is highlighted. Use the RIGHT and LEFT
controls to change the object currently selected. Each object's unique
graphics symbol and name is displayed together with the cost of
purchasing the object. In order to allocate objects to a unit use the
UP and DOWN controls to highligth the unit you require and then use
RIGHT to add the currently selected object to that unit's equipment, or
LEFT to subtract the object. You cannot give an object to a unit if you
have insufficient credits, or if that unit;s weight or size limits
would be exceeded. Once you are satisfied with your selection press
FIRE twice to continue the game.

All weapons are loaded with ammunition when purchased, but extra
ammunition for each weapon is available. Consult the weapons table in
the reference section for details on weapons and ammunition.


DEPLOYMENT

Each unit is deployed in turn until all units have been placed on the
map. The deployment mode shows the name and equipment of the unit to be
deployed on the right of the screen and the map window on the left. Use
UP, DOWN, LEFT and RIGHT to move the flashing white cursor around the
map until you have found the deployment square you want. Each scenario
will specify which spaces you can deploy on. Place the cursor over the
deployment square and press FIRE to deploy the unit.


GAME OPTIONS

Before each game turn starts you will be presented with a menu which
allows you to save and load games. Press the number of the option you
require or press fire to continue with the game.

 Change Controls  Allows you to change the controls of the game between
                  different joysticks.

 Save Game        Allows you to save the current game to tape. make
                  sure record and play on your tape recorder are
                  pressed before you select this option.

 Load Game        If you select this option then the current game is
                  abandoned in order to load a new game. You will be
                  presented with the same menu that appears when the
                  main program is first loaded.

 Verify Game      If you have just saved the current game to tape then
                  use this option to make sure that it has saved
                  properly.


CURSOR MODE

At any time the game is in one of three different modes; cursor mode,
select mode or fire mode. Each game turn starts in cursor mode which
simply allows you to move the cursor around the map using UP, DOWN,
LEFT and RIGHT. The display on the right of the screen shows
information about the map space under the cursor as follows:

 MAP              The name of the terrain feature such as grass, floor,
                  wall etc.

 OBJECT           The name of any object on the ground.

 UNIT             The name of any unit under the cursor.

 OBJECT IN USE    The object that the unit is currently using, if any.


CURSOR MODE OPTIONS

Laser Squad is controlled via a series of menus which are simply lists
of different options available to you at any time. To display a menu,
which ever mode you are in, Press FIRE. Use UP and DOWN to highlight
the option of your choice and press FIRE to select the option. The
options that can be available in cursor mode are as follows:

 SELECT           If the cursor is placed over one of your units with
                  APs remaining then you will be able to select that
                  unit for movement and other actions. Once you select
                  this option you will enter selection mode.

 INFO             If the cursor is placed over any unit then
                  information on that unit can be displayed.

 NEXT UNIT        This option simply moves the cursor to another
                  friendly unit with APs remaining.

 SCANNER          A strategic map of the entire playing area can be
                  displayed showing the positions of all your units and
                  any enemy units that are currently spotted.

 CANCEL           The cancel option in each menu just clears the menu
                  and returns you to the current mode.


SELECT MODE

In Select mode the message display on the right of the screen shows
essential information about the unit you have selected. Most important
is the number of Action Points remaining and the direction indicator
which shows which direction the unit is facing. Once you have selected
a unit then the directional controls are used to move the unit as
follows:

 LEFT             Rotate unit left

 RIGHT            Rotate unit right

 UP               Move unit forwards in the direction that it is facing

 DOWN             Move unit backwards
 

SELECT MODE DISPLAY





Fig 1

 Name of_________\  BLA BLA 
 Unit            /   BLA

                      BLA BLA  /______ Direction
                        BLA    \       Indicator
                                               
 Action Points___\   Bla bla
 Remaining       /    bla

 Minimum Action---->  bla bla
 Points needed
 for opportunity        bla   <--------Unit's Morale
 fire
                        bla   <--------Unit's Stamina
                        bla   <--------Wounds
                        bla   <--------Burden


 Object______\       BLA BLA
 In Use      /        BLA


 Terrain Unit is______\  bla bla
 Standing On          /     bla

 Protection value______\  bla bla
 of Terrain            /

              Number    
                 ^
                 |
                 |_____Number of Enemy
                       Units spotted
       


MOVEMENT

Moving a unit will always cost Action Points, depending on the terrain
that is being moved over. Moving diagonally will cost an extra two APs
and rotating a unit 45 costs one AP. If you attempt to move into
impassable terrain the unit will attack the terrain and possibly
destroy it.

You are allowed to move the selected unit over friendly units but you
can never and movement on top of a friendly unit. The only options
available to a unit on top of another are to continue moving or to
select the END MOVE option from the menu. If you select the END MOVE
option then the unit will be placed on the last empty space that it
occupied.


CLOSE COMBAT

In order to engage in close combat simply move your unit into an enemy
unit. The close combat display on the right will show you what weapon
the unit is using (if any), the accuracy (% chance to hit), the AP
cost, the damage and the hit location.

LINE OF SIGHT

Laser Squad uses a hidden movement system which means that enemy units
will not appear on the map unless they are in the field of vision of
one of your units. A unit's field ofvision extends 45 from the front.
Various types of terrain such as walls or doors will block line of
sight. You will not see an enemy unit until it is clearly in view.


SELECT MODE OPTIONS

When you press FIRE in select mode you will have a variety of menu
options depending on the circumstances of the unit. Most of these
options cost APs based on a percentage of the units Action Point
Allowance. For example if a unit is allocated 50 APs at the beginning
of the turn then changing an object costs 20% of its AP allowance which
is APs. Actions cannot be carried out if the unit has insufficient APs
(although the option is still included in the menu list).

The following menu options are available in select mode:

 END MOVE:        Ends the selection of the unit and returns to cursor
                  mode. The unit can still be re-selected provided it
                  still has APs remaining.

 FIRE:            If the unit has an object in use then it can be fired
                  or thrown. Selecting this option changes the display
                  to fire mode.

 CHANGE:          If the unit is carrying one or more objects then this
                  option is used to select an object for use or to
                  change the object in use. The unit's objects are
                  displayed on the screen with the ammunition amount,
                  weight and size of each object. The white pointer on
                  the left shows which object is currently in use, if
                  any. Use the UP and DOWN controls to move the pointer
                  to the object you want to use and press FIRE to
                  change object. Performing this action costs 25% of
                  the units Action Point allowance.

 PICK UP:         If the unit is standing on a space with one or more
                  objects on the floor then they can be picked up. This
                  option displays all the objects in the space in a
                  similar manner to the change object display. Use the
                  UP and DOWN controls to move the pointer to the
                  object you want to pick up and press FIRE to
                  implement the action. If you don't want to pick up
                  any objects move the pointer to CANCEL and press
                  fire. This option costs 50% if the unit has an object
                  in use or 25% if it does not.

 DROP:            If the unit has an object in use then it can be
                  dropped costing 10% of its AP allowance. It is
                  possible to hide an object that is dropped, depending
                  on the size of the object and the capacity of the
                  terrain the unit is standing on. For example you can
                  hide a grenade in a plant pot but not a rifle, you
                  cannot hide anything on a floor space but you can
                  hide most things under a bed. If it is possible to
                  hide the dropped object then a small menu is
                  displayed asking you whether you wish to hide the
                  object or not.

 LOAD:            If the unit has a ranged combat weapon in use and it
                  is also carrying the appropriate ammunition costing
                  50% of the unit's AP allowance.

 PRIME:           If the unit has a grenade in use whixh is not primed
                  then it can be primed at a cost of 20%. Use the UP
                  and DOWN controls to alter the timer and press FIRE
                  to prime the grenade. THe value of the timer
                  determines when the grenade will explode. If the
                  timer is set to 0 then it will explode at the end of
                  your turn. If it is set to 1 then it will go off at
                  the end of your opponent's turn, and if it is set to
                  2 then it will go off at the and of your next turn,
                  and so on.

 OPEN:            If the unit is facing towards a closed, unlocked door
                  then it can be opened. The cost is 20% of AP
                  allowance.

 CLOSE:           If the unit is facing towards an opened door it can
                  be closed. The cost is 20% of AP allowance.

 UNLOCK:          If the unit is facing towards a locked door and it is
                  using the correct key then the door can be unlocked.
                  The cost is 25% of AP allowance.

 LOCK:            If the unit is facing towards an unlocked door and it
                  is using the correct key then the door can be locked.
                  The cost is 25% of AP allowance.

 SCANNER:         The strategic map can be displayed with no AP cost.

 CANCEL:          Clear menu and return to movement.


FIRE MODE DISPLAY

Fig 2

 Name of_________\  BLA BLA 
 Weapon          /   BLA


 Unit's Action   ___\   Bla bla
 Points Remaining   /    bla


 Ammunition_____\       BLA BLA
 In Weapon      /        BLA


                          bla bla    /_____Automatic Fire
                            bla      \     Not Available
                                           for Sniper Rifle
 Accuracy of  
 Snap Shot  ________\   BLA     BLA         Action Point
 Including          /  BLA      BLA  /_____ Cost for 
 Weapon Skill          BLA      BLA  \      Snap Shot
                       BLA       BLA
                       BLA       BLA
                        BLA     BLA
                       BLA       BLA


FIRE MODE

 When you select the FIRE option the main display will change from a
perspective map to a Line of Fire map which shows all the tarrain that
blocks shooting or throwing. All units are replaced with a blob
depicting the target area of each unit. The square cursor is replaced
by a flashing cross-hair cursor for targeting shots. The information
display on the right shows the weapon being used and the essential
information for ranged combat. In order to fire a weapon move the
cross-hair cursor to the desired target point, press FIRE to display
the fire mode menu and select the type of shot you require. You will
not be able to fire a shot if the cursor is outside the unit's field of
vision.

FIRE MODE OPTIONS

 Only ranged combat weapons will have the three fire options for
automatic fire, snap shots and aimed shots. Some weapons are unable to
do automatic fire. If the unit is usingany other object then only the
throw option will be available.

 The following options are available in Fire Mode:

 AUTO:            Automatic fire is a burst of continuous fire between
                  two specified points. A minimum of three shots must
                  be fired and the unit must have enough APs for at
                  least three autoshots in order to select this option.
                  Once you have selected automatic fire you must select
                  a second target point within the unit's field of
                  vision. Press FIRE when you have moved the cursor to
                  the desired point. You will then be asked to select
                  the number of shots you wish to fire from three up to
                  the maximum allowed by the unit's Action Point. Use
                  the UP and DOWN controlsto change the number of shots
                  and press FIRE to execute the shots.

 SNAP:            A snap shot is a single shot, but is more accurate
                  then automatic fire.

 AIM:             An aimed shot is the most accurate type of shot but
                  requires the most Action Points.

 THROW:           Any object can be thrown up to a distance determined
                  by the unit's strength divided by the object's
                  weight. An object will never be thrown further than
                  the cursor which allows for fairly accurate placing
                  of object. The accuracy of throwing is equivalent to
                  the unit's agility rating and the cost is 20% of the
                  unit's AP allowance. If a thrown object hits another
                  unit then the object can be caught provided the unit
                  is facing the thrower and has no object currently in
                  use. If the object is not caught then it will fall at
                  the unit's feet.

 INFO:            If the cursor is over a unit then information on that
                  unit can be displayed.

 END FIRE:        Ends fire mode and returns to select mode.

 CANCEL:          Clears menu.


OPPORTUNITY FIRE

Opportunity fire is an essential feature of the tactics employed in
Laser Squad. If a unit is left with at least half its Action Point
Allowance at the end of the game turn then it will be elegible for
opportunity fire. During your opponents turn opportunity fire will be
triggered when an enemy unit moves into the field of vision of your
unit. Control will switch to you in fire mode which allows you to shoot
the enemy unit. Once you select the END FIRE option then your opponent
can continue with his turn.



 P A R T   2 :     REFERENCE GUIDE


Unit Characteristics

Each unit has a unique set of atributes which affect the game in
various ways.

 MORALE VALUE:    Each unit's morale values represents the value of the
                  unit to the rest of its squad. If the unit is
                  eliminated then the morale of all units on its side
                  will decrease by an amount equal to its morale value
                  and all enemy units morale will increase by the same
                  value.

 MOVEMENT TYPE:   Different types of unit have different AP costs for
                  certain types of terrain. For example the droids in
                  scenario one are unable to trample over the household
                  furniture.
 ACTION POINT    
 ALLOWANCE:       This represents the number of Action Points that the
                  unit is allocated at the start of each turn. However,
                  a unit's inital AP allowance is modified by a number
                  of factors. The weight of the unit's armour and the
                  unit's burden are both subtracted from this value.

 CONSTITUTION:    A unit's constitution is the amount of damage it can
                  take before it is eliminated.

 WOUNDS:          If a unit's constitution is reduced the the unit will
                  receive a number of wounds which are subtracted from
                  the unit's Action Points at the start of each turn.

 WOUNDS RATE:     The wound rate is the number of constitution points
                  lost needed to generate one wound.

 STAMINA:         This value represents the physical fitness, or
                  energy, of the unit. If a unit spends more than half
                  its APs on energetic tasks like movement then stamina
                  will be reduced. Unused APs will help recover
                  stamina. If Stamina reaches such a low level that the
                  unit is feeble then it will only receive half its AP
                  allowance at the start of each turn until stamina is
                  recovered through rest.

 MORALE:          A unit's morale is adversely affected if friendly
                  units are eliminated or if a unit is wounded. Morale
                  will increase (but not beyond intial morale) if enemy
                  units are eliminated. If a unit becomes panicked then
                  it may drop objects that it is using. The morale of
                  droids is never reduced.

 WEAPON SKILL:    This value affects ranged combat only. Combined with
                  the skill factor of a weapon the accuracy of firing
                  can be increased.

 STRENGTH:        The weight of objects that can be carried is
                  determined by a unit's strength. In close combat
                  strength can increase the damage done by a weapon.

 AGILITY:         The accuracy of throwing depends on a unit's agility.
                  The accuracy of hitting in close combat is affected
                  by the attacking unit's agility and the defending
                  unit's agility.

 UNARMED COMBAT:  This represents the unit's innate ability at close
                  combat without using any weapon.

 BURDEN:          A unit's burden is subtracted from its AP allowance.
                  The burden value is calculated according to the
                  strength of the unit and the total weight of all
                  objects carried.

 ARMOUR:          Each unit has an armour rating for its front side,
                  left side, right side and rear. The unit's
                  directional facing and the source of each shot is
                  used to calculate which armour rating is used in
                  combat calculations. Armour can be damaged if a
                  damage value from a shot or hit is greater than the
                  armour rating. A unit's constitution will only be
                  affected by a damage value which is greater than the
                  armour value.

 VICTORY POINTS:  A unit's victory point value is added to the enemies
                  total victory points when the unit is eliminated.


WEAPONS AND OBJECTS

There are three basic catagories of objects in Laser Squad, weapons,
ammunition and other objects. There are three types of weapon, close
combat weapons, ranged weapons and grenade type weapons. Most ranged
weapons can be used in close combat. Objects can have some or all of
the following characteristics:

 WEIGHT:          All objects have a weight value.

 SIZE:            All objects have a size value. Units are limited in
                  the total size of objects that they can carry
                  depending on the type of armour worn. When there is
                  more than one object in a space then the largest
                  object is displayed on the map.

 CONSTITUTION:    All objects have a constitution value which
                  represents the damage factor needed to destroy the
                  object.
 ACTION POINT
 COST:            When an object is on the gorund there can be an AP
                  cost for moving onto it in addition to the AP cost
                  for terrain.
 CLOSE COMBAT
 COST:            The percentage of APs required to use the weapon in
                  close combat.
 CLOSE COMBAT
 ACCURACY:        The basic chance of hitting with the weapon. This is
                  modified by a number of factors in close combat.

 CLOSE COMBAT
 DAMAGE:          The average amount of damage points inflicted by the
                  weapon in close combat.
 CLOSE COMBAT
 STRENGTH BONUS:  The percentage of a unit's strength that is added to
                  damage in close combat.
 CLOSE COMBAT
 AGILITY BONUS:   The percentage of a unit's agility that is added to
                  the accuracy in close combat.
 AUTOMATIC FIRE
 AP COST:         The percentage of a unit's action point allowance
                  used for a single automatic shot.
 AUTOMATIC FIRE
 ACCURACY:        The percentage chance of being on target.
 SNAP SHOT
 AP COST:         The percentage of unit's action point allowance used
                  for a single snap shot.
 SNAP SHOT
 ACCURACY:        The percentage chance of being on target with a snap
                  shot.
 AIMED SHOT
 AP COST:         The percentage of unit's action point aloowance used
                  for one aimed shot.
 AIMED SHOT
 ACCURACY:        The percentage chance of being on target with an
                  aimed shot.

 SKILL FACTOR:    This value determines how much of a unit's weapon
                  skill is added to accuracy in ranged combat.
 RANGED COMBAT
 DAMAGE:          The average amount of damage inflicted by the weapon
                  in ranged combat. If the weapon has explosive
                  ammunition, or if the weapon is a grenade type, then
                  this value represents explosive power.

 AMMUNITION:      The type of ammunition that is used if the object is
                  a ranged combat weapon.


CLOSE COMBAT CALCULATIONS

The accuracy of close combat is determined by the sum of the following
factors:

1.   The basic close combat accuracy of the weapon.
2.   Add the agility factor determined by the weapons agility bonus and
     the attacking unit's agility.
3.   Subtract all the enemy unit's agility if it is being attacked from
     the front.
4.   Subtract half the enemy unit's agility if it is being attacked
     from the side.
5.   Subtract a quarter of the enemy unit's agility if it is being
     attacked from the rear.

The damage in close combat is determined by the sum of the following
factors:

1.   The basic close combat damage of the weapon.
2.   Add the stregth factor determined by the weapons strength bonus
     and the attacking unit's strength.
3.   Add a random factor which modifies the damage value calculated so
     far between 50% and 150%.
4.   Subtract the defending unit's armour rating for the side in which
     it is hit.
5.   Subtract the protection value of the terrain occupied by the
     defending unit.


RANGED COMBAT CALCULATIONS

The accuracy of ranged combat is determined by the sum of the following
factors:

1.   The basic accuracy of the weapon depending on the type of shot.
2.   If the shot is a snap shot then add the skill bonus determined by
     the weapons skill and the firing units weapon skill.
3.   If the shot is an automatic shot then only add half the calculated
     skill bonus.
4.   If the shot is an aimed shot then add double the calcuted skill
     bonus.

Ranged shot is an aimed shot then add double the calculated skill
bonus:

1.   The ranged combat damage value of the weapon.
2.   Add a random factor which results in a damage amount between 50%
     and 150% of the initial damage value.
3.   Subtract the target unit's armour rating for the side in which it
     is hit.
4.   Subtract the protection rating of the terrain occupied by the
     target unit.


EXPLANATION:  1:WEIGHT, 2:SIZE, 3:CONSTITUTION, 4:AP COST IN MAP,
5:%CLOSE COMBAT COST, 6:%CLOSE COMBAT ACCURACY, 7:CLOSE COMBAT DAMAGE,
8:%CLOSE COMBAT STRENGTH BONUS, 9:%CLOSE COMBAT AGILITY BONUS,
10:%AUTO SHOT AP COST, 11:%AUTO SHOT ACCURACY, 12:%SNAP SHOT AP COST,
13:%SNAPSHOT ACCURACY, 14:%AIMED SHOT AP COST, 15:%AIMED SHOT ACCURACY,
16:%SKILL FACTOR, 17:RANGED COMBAT DAMAGE FACTOR,
18:AMMUNITION CAPACITY, 19:AMMUNITION TYPE.

                 1  2   3 4  5  6  7  8  9 10 11 12 13 14 15

M4000 AUTO-GUN  10 12 106 2 25 40  8 20 10  3  5 25 16 50 40 
MARSEC AUTO GUN 12 14 116 2 25 38 10 20  9  6  5 25 18 50 45 
SNIPER RIFLE     7  8  98 1 20 52  8 20 13 -- -- 33 26 67 56 
MARSEC PISTOL    6  4 100 0 20 50  6 17 17 -- -- 13 10 25 22   C
L50 LAS-GUN     16 14 120 2 33 34 10 17 10  5  4 20 12 50 24   O
HEAVY LASER     28 34 126 3 50 24 11 17  7  3  3 17 10 33 16   N
ROCKET LAUNCHER 12 22  86 3 50 26  9 14  8 -- -- 33 10 67 18   T
DAGGER           1  2  60 0 17 58 20 13 33 -- -- -- -- -- --   I
AP50 GRENADE     2  2  60 0 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --   N
EXPLOSIVE       15  8  80 0 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --   U
M50 AUTO PISTOL  5  4 103 0 25 26  5 25 13 10  3 20 12 50 30   E
L80 LAS GUN     14 18 112 2 25 30  8 17  8 -- -- 25 28 50 64   I
PUMP SHOT GUN    9  9 106 0 25 40  8 20 14 -- -- 25 16 50 38   N
MS AUTO CANNON  26 30 120 3 33 26 11 17  7 13  8 25 20 50 40   G
MK-1            14 12 136 1 25 36  8 17 13  8 12 33 24 33 57 
AP75 GRENADE     4  3 130 0 -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 
LIGHT SABRE      5  4 180 0 20 46 84 17 33 -- -- -- -- -- -- 


                16  17 18        19

M4000 AUTO-GUN   8  46 20   M4000 GUN-CLIP
MARSEC AUTO GUN  8  58 20   MARSEC GUN-CLIP
SNIPER RIFLE    13  52 12   RIFLE CLIP
MARSEC PISTOL    7  40  8   PISTOL CLIP
L50 LAS-GUN      5  30 40   L50 LAS-PACK
HEAVY LASER      6  45 50   HEAVY LAS-PACK
ROCKET LAUNCHER  5 160  1   ROCKET
DAGGER          -- --- --  
AP50 GRENADE    --  90 --  
EXPLOSIVE       --  70 --  
M50 AUTO PISTOL  5  42 12   PISTOL CLIP
L80 LAS GUN      4  48 10   L80 LAS-PACK
PUMP SHOT GUN    7  64  6   SHOT GUN CLIP
MS AUTO CANNON   7  78 12   CANNON CLIP
MK-1            10  53 30   MK-1 CLIP
AP75 GRENADE    -- 160 --  
LIGHT SABRE     -- --- --  




 P A R T   3 :  THE SCENARIOS


SCENARIO ONE: THE ASSASSINS


INTRODUCTION

The Marsec corporation manufactures the best weapons in the galaxy, but
its boss, Sterner Regnix, uses unsavoury methods to extract the best
from his top scientists. The use of mind controls drugs cybernetic
implants is widely used, but officially denied by Marsec. The inter-
stellar Trading Standards Authority is powerless to intervene. A small
band of ex-employers have decided to assassinate Sterner Regnix. They
have located his private home on the planet CX-1 and will stop at
nothing until Sterner is dead.


DEPLOYMENT

Assassin Squad:   Deploy on the red and yellow deployment squares
                  around the house. Entrance to the house can be gained
                  through opening the east or west doors.

Droid Squad:      Sterner Regnix and his body guard of combat droids
                  deploy on the blue squares inside the house.


VICTORY CONDITIONS

Assassin Squad:   If the Assassins manage to eliminate Sterner Regnix
                  they win the game.

Droid Squad:      The droid squad wins if they eliminate all the
                  assassins and Sterner Regnix remains alive.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------


SCENARIO TWO: MOONBASE ASSAULT


INTRODUCTION

 The Omni Corporation's moonbase on And-6 holds security information on
the 30 billion population of galaxy sector nine. Somewhere in sector
nine is the rebel star system, the infamous Rebelstar, which still
remains a secret from all its enemies. However the And-6 moonbase
represents the biggest threat to the rebels so far with an increasing
amount of data on rebel movements. A small band of rebels have
penetrated the moon's outer defences and are poised to launch an attack
on the moonbase itself.


DEPLOYMENT

Laser Squad:      Deploy on the red and yellow squares outside the
                  moonbase. Entrance can only be gained by opening the
                  airlocks.

Omni Corp.:        Deploy on the magenta squares inside the moonbase.


VICTORY CONDITIONS

Laser Squad:      A sufficient number of Databanks and Analysers must
                  be destroyed to guarantee victory. A Databank is
                  worth five victory points and an Analyser is worth
                  two. The Laser Squad wins if 100 victory points are
                  gained.

Omni Corp.:        The Omni Corporation wins if all the Laser Squad is
                  eliminated.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------


SCENARIO THREE: RESCUE FROM THE MINES


INTRODUCTION

A routine rebel mission has gone badly wrong. A reconnaisance mission
in one of the Metallix corporation's mine installations has resulted in
death of most members of a rebel squad. However all is not lost. Three
members of the squad have been imprisoned on one level of the mine and
they have vital information on the mine complex. A small squad has
hastily been assembled to free the prisoners.


DEPLOYMENT

Laser Squad:      Deploy the red and yellow squares on the top left and
                  top right of the map.

Metallix Corp.:   Deploy on blue squares in the mine complex.


VICTORY CONDITIONS

Laser Squad:      All three of the prisoners must escape to guarantee
                  victory. Once a prisoner is released from his cell
                  move him to an elevator door and move into the
                  elevator to escape.

Metallix Corp.:   The Metallix corporation wins if at least five of the
                  rebels are killed.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------


SCENARIO FOUR  -  THE CYBER HORDES


INTRODUCTION

In this scenario a small band of rebels must defend a rebel planet
station from attack by an Imperial droid squad on the large planet of
Azar. The base contains seven stabiliser cores which prevent seismic
instability under the planets thin crust. The imperial squad leaders
have pinpointed the weaknesses in Azars defences and have assembled a
squad designed for the task of destroying the cores. If they succeed
the existence of the entire rebel colony on Azar would be threatened.


DEPLOYMENT

Rebel Squad:      The Rebels must deploy on the red squares inside the
                  main base area on the right of the map.

Droid Squad:      The Droids must deploy on the blue deployment squares
                  on the top left and bottom left of the base.


VICTORY CONDITIONS

Rebel Squad:      In the two player game the Rebels must eliminate all
                  eight of the droids in order to win. In the one
                  player version the droids receive reinforcements. The
                  Rebels must destroy 100 victory points worth of
                  droids in order to win.

Droid Squad:      The Droid squad wins if at least five of the
                  stabiliser cores are destroyed or if all the Rebel
                  squad are killed.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------



SCENARIO FIVE  -  PARADISE VALLEY


INTRODUCTION

The destruction of the planetary stabiliser base has left the Azarian
colony in ruins Volcanic eruptions have destroyed most of the major
installations and the Imperial assault ships hover above the atmosphere
like vultures waiting for their prey to die. Such a massive attack on
such a small colony could only have one objective - to locate and
capture the rebel blueprints for their advanced starfighter. Rather
than destroy all their work the Rebels have transferred all the data
into a small security device. A squad is assigned the task of escaping
from the colony with the device in order to reach the distress beacon
on the western plains. However the journey is not easy. The route
through Paradise Valley is very dangerous because all the local
wildlife is hostile and deadly. An underground network of tunnels can
make the journey easier, but the entrances and exits are all hidden. A
sentient race known as the Sectoids tend to collect and store weaponry
taken from humans unfortunate enough to meet them, and they have the
ability to use these weapons as well. In the valley above the
vegetation provides cover for the viscious venomous splurges whose
acidic spit is lethal. Only the most ingenious squad leader could
possibly negotiate Paradise Valley.


DEPLOYMENT

Rebel Squad:      The Rebels must deploy on the red and yellow squares
                  on the left hand side of the valley.

Aliens:           The Aliens do not have a deployment phase. They are
                  deployed randomly in their natural terrain.


VICTORY CONDITIONS

Rebel Squad:      The Rebels must take the security device, which is
                  initially carned by Corporal Hansen, over to the
                  right hand side of the valley.

Aliens:           The Aliens will win if all the Rebels are killed.



             -----  AGAIN ANOTHER 100% POWER-TYPING  ----

                ---  DONE BY THE CRISTINA OF TRILOGY  ---

                         --  IN NOVEMBER  --

