
                      Earl Weaver Baseball
              
Taken from an ST SEWER SOFTWARE doc disk. I don't know who originally 
typed this doc, but thanks go to the person responsible. Here's what
he's figured out so far. Edited by Parasite.


R - display speeed of last pitch.
I - instant replay.
S - stop game.
W - display wind speed/direction.
T - time out.
U - consult umpire about last pitch.
H - `Ask Earl' [defense]
V - `Ask Earl' [offense]
B - examine lineup
L - lineup change
            _
F1 - consult pitcher.              \
F2 - argue with home umpire.        \
F3 - argue with 1st base umpire.     - Red Team
F4 - argue with 2nd base umpire.    /
F5 - argue with 3rd base umpire.  _/
                                  _
F6 - consult pitcher.              \
F7 - argue with home umpire.        \
F8 - argue with 1st base umpire.     - Blue Team
F9 - argue with 2nd base umpire.    /
F10 - argue with 3rd base umpire. _/

Also: hit TAB or SPACE while playing to set your play.  It's pretty
self-explanitory from there.

<esc>  - Go back to last roster setup screen.
         (only during roster setup before
          regulation game).
          
To hit, just press the joystick/mouse button.
Ditto for pitching, but the more times you press it, the wilder the pitch.
You can throw curves, screwballs, etc. but I don't know how yet.

   In order to pitch, you hold the left button down, and move the mouse in the
direction of the pitch that you want (from the '/' key), and then let go.  If
you hit the left key after the pitch is thrown, the pitch goes wild.  To try
to pick off the lead runner (I don't think you can pick him off) double click
on the left button, or click once on the right.  Fielding is fairly straight-
forward; to throw you move the pointer to behind the player you want to throw
to and double click on the left.

   To hit, you hold the left button down, and let up when you want to swing.
Running is a little more difficult.  The computer will run for you, but in a
very wimpy manner.  If you want to take second or steal, hold down the right
button and push the mouse forward or reverse (depending on which direction you
wish the player to run in - ie. if you wish the player to run forward, push
forward).

Pitching --->
-------------
Pitch wildly but fast - hit the button like crazy
Pitch a slider - when pitching hold the joystick down while holding down
the joystick button (or mouse)
Pitch a high one - when pitching hold the joystick up while holding down
the joystick/mouse button
Pitch a curve right - when pitching do the normal junk, but just before
you let go push right
Pitch a curve left - same as above but push the joystick left just
before you let go
Pitch a knuckle ball (i am pretty sure) - when pitching do the normal
shit, but just before you
let go hit the joystick/mouse
button fast.
Hitting the ball
----------------
It is pretty self-explantory, but if you want to hit (ie: a inside curve)
you must push the button and move the joystick in the direction of the
ball.
