CONTENTS

When I die, I want on my tombstone:
'The Sorest Loser That Ever Lived.'



-

Ead

weaver

This manual is for IBM and IBM compatible computers. If you're playing
Earl Weaver Baseball on sornething otherthan an IBM or IBM compatible, please refer to rhe Command Summary card for any differences in
game play for )our computer. The scrcens that you see in this manual
may also be slj8hdy different from what you see on your screen.

Q cerrrxc srAnrED
whether you're a floppydisk or hard disk user, rhe firn thjng you must
do is boot your system wifi DOs.

floppy Dlrrl Userr

a

Do nol pl.y with the original dislca. You MUST make a copy of both

disk AND install the Eame oryou will encounter problems with
the game.
To copy your diskls):

1.

Have a disk ready. Earl Weaver Baseballwill write over this disk so
make sure it doesnt contain information you still want

2.

Put your DOS disk in drive A (if it isn't already). Type A: and press
Enter.

3.

SinSle d,ive users" Type DISKCOPY and press Enter.

You'll be

prompted when to insen your source disk (the original) and when to
insert your destination disk (the backup).

Dual drive use6: Type DISKCOPY A: B: and press Enter. Put your
original disk in drive A and backup disk in drive B. Press Enter when
ready, You won't need to swap disk durin8 the copying process.

4. If you're usinS

5.25 inch diskt copy both disks onto two separate
using a 3.5 inch disk, allthe infomation is packed
onto a sinSle disk so you only have to copy one disk.

disk. lf you?e

Inst,lllng lhe

Oo'f',c

lnstalling Earl weaver 8aseball onto your hard drive or floppy disks is
easy with the install program. You should install your game whether
you're u5in8 a hard drive or floppy disks. After booting your system with
Dot do the following:

'1. Type A! and pres6 tnter.

2.

Putthe Program Disk in drive A, type INSTALL and press Enter
(Floppy Oisk Users
Be sure to use your copr'ei!). You'll see the
followinE options (3.5 inch disk users do not Eet option

-

,;

I

I

Inslill Ea Weaver Baseballon

2
3

lnshll Earl Weaver 8a!eball on a 2 driw floppy sy.bm.
lnstlll tarl Weaver Ba'eball on ),ollr Hard or RAM di.L
Relurn lo DO6.

4-

Please choose one of the above

a

drive floppy syrtem.

L

3. Enter the appropriate number. Follow the onscreen prompts to install
your disk. Hard disk users: The game will be installed in a directory
of you. choice. The defauh directory is EwaB; you cim enter a new

one

ifyo! want

Pt'lffug on d nof.dDx'tttc
I . Type C: and press Enter (we1e asslming

your hard drive is c; if it

isn't, type the appropriate letter).

2.

and press Enter. (Don't aclually type the word
"directory." Type the name ofthe directory that /ou chose when you
innalled the game. For instance, if you chose EWBB fo. you. direc-

Type CD

\dircclorl

tory you would type CD\EWBB.)

3.

Type wEAvER and press Enter. (ECA Users: Type wEAvER E and
press Enter.) The game will load and you'll see the title screen. Press
the space bar when you want to stan the Bame.

Ptaytug on Flo991t llishs

l.

Put your
Enter.

2.

Type WEAVER and press Enter. The game will load and you'll see
the title screen. Press the space bar when you want to start the game.

a

copyofthe Program Disk in drive A, type A:, and press

CGA Ljsers: lf you have a 384K sin8le-drive synem, you'll see a box
with a red bar and yellow bar in it; at this point you need to replace
your Program Disk with the Craphics disk and press Enter to continue.
ECA Users: Type WEAVER E and press tnte..

3. You'll be prompted

a

to switch disk durin8 dE Same when necessary.

Note to owne6 of Earlweaver Baseball(versions 1.0 and 1.1) and
to 1985 and 1987 Baseball Stat Disk owners: The first time you play
with your data disks, Earl Weaver Baseball version 1.5 will ask you if
you want to rename your PIAYERS.S file. Answer YES to update your

data filesto the new format. Accumulad stats compiled with Earl
Weaver Easeball versions 1.0 and 1.1 are not compatible with the
new data format. Moe on the new format in Chaptet 12, Commissidler's and Baseball sl|at Disks.

Paths
You'rc goinS to see the word PATH followed by a drive letter (probably
A, B, or C) on a lotofmenus. Path is, simply, fie.oute that your computer follows to get to the information it needs. Let's say the floppy disk
that contalns all the information about your teams is in drive B; then the
path to that information is "B:". l-et's say it's on your hard drive (and lets
assume your hard drive is C) in a suMirectory called WEAVER; the path
would be C:\WEAVER

What is a suMirectory? lt's iust a directory within a directory. ln the
C:\WIAVER example, C:\ is the .oot (or main) directory while WEAVER
is a suMirectory. ln C:\WeAVER\5TATS, STATS is a subdirectory of
WIAVER, while WEAVER is a subdirectory of C:\.
SET PATH is an option available on many rnenus. Choose this anytime
you want to change the path to your data. You'll see the following:

Select any ofthe drive letters and the program will go to that drive. You
will see either STATS FOUND or STATS NOT FOUND. The paths you
can work with will display STATS FOUND. lf that path contains suMirectories, it will show all the subdirectories.

SuMiredories are useful in keeping information organized. For instance, if you plan on having more than one league, you could keep
different leagues in different suMirectories.

If you select the wrong subdireclory, you can "back out'' by clicking on
"{parend'. This will take you back to the root directory in your cuffent
drive.

CONTNOLLINC EARL
WEAVEN BASEBALL
Regibo,,'"d. cnd, Kegpad

Con''.olt

lf you choose to use the keyboard, you'll use this set of keys.

If you choose to

use the keypad,

you'll

use this ser of keys.

Selecting from Option cridst Option grids are the "grids'you select
banin& pitching and running options from. To select an option, just
press the key that corresponds to the option on the grid.

setecling frorn MsrrBr To seleq frcm menut use the arrow keys to
highliShi the menu option you want and press Enter {if you're using rhe
keyboard you can also press S; if you're usin8the keypad, you can also
press 5).
see the Manage/s card for a complete list of the keys you can use
in Earl weaver Baseball,

to'sllah

4''tit rto','sa

Contlolt

push the ioystick toSelecling fmm Optlon Gti&: Joy$ick users
press
the button, roll rowaads
Mouse
uselg
wards an option and click.
an option, ard then release.

-

-

Seleclhg ftDrll Mcrts. To select frcm a rnenu, mo\e youa ioystick or
rnouse up, do,vn, left, or ri8ht to .rpve around the seleclion; click on
the highlighted option to selecl it,
Note to loystick Users: You'llsee eferences to "bufton 1" and "button
2.'Since joystick vary tremendously, you'll have to test both buftons to
determine which is button I and which is button 2.

Q nnr-c^lnE

MENU

Once the game loads, you see the title screen. Press the space bar when
you're ready to continue and you'll 8d the Pre-came menu. lf you don't
press the space bar for two minutes, the demo will run, The Pre-came
menu gives you these options:

GAME-The Arcade Came is the simple "hands on" version
of Earl weaver Baseball. You'll do a lot ofplaying and a little managing.
ARCADE

a

Are you new to ea weaver Baseball? Then play the Arcade Came
first. lt's a quick and easy way to get acquainted with the game.

FULL PROGRAM
ln the Full Program, you can choose from the full
selection of baseball options and ganE utilities. You can also choose to
just manage the team or to play and manage.

-

Q er.lrrxc rHE aRcArDE

GAIttE

I.

Pi& the horne tedn.

Scroll up and down the list and Pick the one you want. N[ nands for
National League and AL stands for American League. The numbers be_
hind NL or AL stand for the era. For instance, if )ou pick AL 00'30,
you'll manage American Lea8ue players like Babe Ruth and Cy Young
who played in the early'1900s.

2.

select your input device.
'1,
Chmse from KEYEOARD, KEYPAD,IOYSTICK or MOUSE. ln a two player game, the players must use different input devices; you can't
share the same one. Noas On Tandy machines, the mouse is replaced
with jOYSTICK 2. To use a mouse, you must install your mouse driver
before running Earl weaver Saseball.

3. Select who controls lhe home team.
Choose from YOU PLAY or EARL PLAYs. lfthis is your first time in the
8ame, try controlling the home team,

4.

Pick the leam's play level.
MAJOR LEAGUE is the toughest while SANDIOT is the easiest. Choose
an easier sening if you want faster runners, fa$d fielderg and a larger
hittingzone. ln SEMI-PRO and SANDLOT, the computer comrols all
baserunners.
Choose f.om any of the teams on the lisl to be lhe visiting team.
The setup choices for the visiting team are the sarne as for the home
team except at the end you'll see NINE MAN IINEUP {the pitcher bats
tor himself or DESIGNATED HITTER (the oH bats for fte pitcher).
when you choose the Arcade Came from the Pre-Came menu, you play
with the nine man llneup, regardless ofwhich option you choose. To
play an Arcade Carne with a desiSnated hitter, you'll have to select

5.

FULL GAME. From the Full Came menu select DESIGNATED HITTER
and ARCADE GAME (set the other settings any way you wand.

5.

Choose READY when you're ready lo play ball.
lfyor.r decide you didn't Jike your set!p cho;ces, select CANCEL and
you'll Bo back to to the Pre-Came menu where you can start over.

7.

Enter your season ticket pass number.
Oa the codewheel, ljne !p the stadi!m name with the seatinS section
inforrnation. Next to the stadium area you see a small window with a
number jn it; type in that number and press Enter.

8.

Reading the scoreboard,
Once you're in, you see two views ofthe field: an overhead view and
the catcher's view. You also see hr'vo scoreboards across the top.

The Main scoreboard shows game information.

.
I
R
H

Team at bat

Efiors

E

lnnings

o

Runs

B

Hits

s

Ous
Balls
Strikes

The PitcherBafter scoreboard shows slats for the pitcher and batter.
Eatter:

BattingAverage
Pitcher:

+F

ERA

(Eamed Run Average)

'

HR Home

S

Runs

Fatigue
Strikes

R

Runningrating

*P

Pitch count

B

Balls

The Fatigue mting and Pitch @unt (nunle.t o{ pitches thrcwn) only show
in nE Re8rJlation Eatt]ps.

watch the Balls and strikes column oftheMain scoreboard durinS
gameplayfor official scoring on hits, errors and pitching. You'll see a
code and, ifapplicable, the position ofthe pla)er involved in the play.
lf an error occuE, an E is posted after B: and the position ofthe player
who made the eror is posted after s:. lfa wild pitch occurs, w is posted
after B: and P is posted after S:. The following is a complete list ofscoreboard codes.
scoreboard codes
H

Sing'e

BK

D

Double

rc

T

Tiple

HB

HR
E

10

P8

Balk
Hit batter

9.

Pitching.

lf you?e the home team, you take the field filst. To deliver a pitch,
you need to Sive three pitch commands: 1) the type
speed and curve,
2) the localion
where the pitcher will aftempt to th.ow h, and 3) the

-

delivery seleoion.

The option Erids below show the options you can cfimse from. You
never actually see the grids on the screen. You'll just choose from the
qJids as if they werc lp on the screen,

Selectingfrom Option Crids: Keypad or keyboard users-pressthe
number or letter that corresponds to your pitch. Joystick use6
pr.rsh
press the
the Joynick towards an option and click. Mouse users
button, rolltowards an option, and then release.

-

-

1. The t)pe of pitch is the first pitching option
yo! select. Choose from any of these.

a

Press Escto shake off a siBn.

2.

Now you need to select the locatioD, This
is where in lhe slrike zone the pitcherwill
attempt to throw the ball.

't1

3.

a

ln the final pitch selection, you can deliver the
pitch or make some other pitching rnove like a
pltchout or pickoff attempt. You can't attempt
a pickof{ if nobod/s on base; the pitcher will
Bo ahead and pitch the ball. lfthere are two or
more runners on base, the pitcher will throw
to the base with the lead runner.

To intentionally walk a player, issue four successive pitchouts.

Pitches thrown down the middle have a Ereater chance of being a strike.
Computer batters hit balls that come down the middle harder, so you
take chances when you send it straiSht down the middle. lf you're
ahead in fte count, )aou mi8ht want to use an oppo6ite pitch that's an
intentional ball; a computer player might chase after the bad pitch and

strike out.
An opposite pitch is one that breaks the pattern of where the pitches
have been crossing the plate. For instance, if you throw three successive
pitches to the outside of the plate away from the batter. a fourth throw
to the inside of the plate would make that pitch an opposite pitch.

10. Fielding.
ln additlon to pitchin& you'll also field the ball when you're on defense.

catchingj The fielders automatically run and
catch rhe ball; then they wait for your instruction
ro rhrow. This grid shows the placesthat your
fielder can throw to. If you don't instrucl your
fielder where to th.ow the ball, he won't throw it.

12

Cutting off lhrows frorn lhe outfield: KeyboardAeypad users
keep
the button or key pressed down. ,oystick users
click buton 1 while
the ball is in the air. Mouse users
click the left button while the ball

-

is in the air.

-

-

I. Using the defensive Slrategy menu.
ln your role as a manager, you can call plays from the dugout with the
Strategy rnenus. Press the space bar to open the cards; you'll see one for
defensive plays and one for offensive plays.
I

You can only work with the ca.d that appliesto your team: if youte out
on the field, you can only choose from the defensive Strategy menu and
if you're at bat, you can only choose from the offensive Strategy menu.
The home team's menu is always on the left and the visitor team's menu
is always on the right.
The dimmed words are unavailable commands. Some, like LINEUP are
unavailable because you're playingthe Arcade game while others are
unavailable because ofplay chcumstances (i.e., you can't HOLD if
there are no rlnneas on base),

Many of the commands toggle on or off. lf rherds a dot to the left of
the command, it's off; ifthere's a dot to the rlght, ifs on,

on: Keyboard or keypad users highlight the
highlight the oprion and press
Joystick users
button 2 (since joysticks vary tremendously, you'll have to rest both
buttons to determine which acts as bufton I and which as button 21.
Mouse users- highlight the option and click rhe right butron.
To lum a command

option and press

J.

-

-

off, Keyboard or keypad users highlightthe
highlight the option and press
Joystick users
button 1. Mouse users
highlight the option and click the left button.

To tum a command

option and press

e.

-

-

-

13

Slrategy Menu

-

Defense

READY

LINEUP*

Opens the Lineup scrcen.

EAAL

Ask Earlfor

CONFER'

Queries ).our pitcner and catder on the pikhe/s siatus. lf
you decide to make a pitching change, yor/ll r'eed lo go
to lhe bu IIFn. You m
re're your pitcher after M1D
'ri inf,ing.
conferen@s in the tame

CUARD

Moves

HOLD

Moves infielders closer to the lead bare to reduce leadoffs

If

lnfield ,hifL Shifts your infielders leftor riShL
lnfield deplh. lvoves yoor infieldeB shallo$/ or deep.
outfield shift. Mo,,/es your outlieldeE left or right.

SHIFT

IF DEPTH

OfSHIFT
OF DEPTH
P

ARNDI

his rdvlce on theplay.

)ourfilstand thhd basmen

closer to the foul lires.

outtield depth. Mo!es youroudieldeB shallowor deep.
Pilch around. Doern't8ive the baner any8ood pir.hp\ ro
hir-

OUf

Pitch out.Tells the pitcher uc thmwoutride the suike zone
and the catcher to step outfor a quick lhrow to a bare on

cHc rsr

Tells your fiEt baseman to charye iowar& home in antici-

CHG 3RD

Telb your thid bareman to chaee iowrdr home in anticipation of a bunL

NO PTAY

Can@h all plays exccpt HIDE. Also resets defenslve positlons to their neutlalor'unshifted" positions,

HIDE

Displays the name ofthe playr only, the ory'off status of
lhe plays are hidden so you must keep tracl of tl'em men-

P

l,ally.

'0 Not available

Uetulfor two-phyer gam6.

in Arcade came.

Notavailable in Play & ManaSe mode.

14

To close the menu, p.ess F10. Or, hi8hlight READY and then press
J, or click eilher joyslick or mouse blnon.

e

or

12, Hitting and Runnin&
Three outs and i(s yolr up5. At the end ofeach half-inning, you'll see a
recap of the half-inning and which th.ee batters are due up. You control
the hitring and base running.

Hittin&

Press the Swing or Bunt key to take a
backwin8; release the keylo follow through on the

you can swing by
pressin8 and releasing bufton 1 and bunt by pressin8 and releasing button 2. Mouse users
you can

swing or bunt. Joystick users

-

-

swing by pressinS and eleasing the left button and
bunt by pressing and releasing $e right button.

'

Not available in semi-pro and Sandlot play levels.

Running

Press the Run Ahead key to make the lead runner run. ,oystick
push up to .un forward, pull back to run back. Mouse users
roll up to run forward, roll down to run back. You only control the run-

users

-

-

ners at Major and Minor league levels.
'I 3. Using the offensive StraleSy menu.
To open the offensive Strategy menu, press the space bar. As with the
defensive strategy menu, dimmed commands are unavailable. Commands that a.e 'on" have a dot to the .ight of them.

l5

Strategy Menu

RTADY
LINeuP'
f^Rt
ACCI

-

Defenia

Retums !o play.

openr ttE Lineup sseen.
Aek E:rlfd hir advice on thic play.
Ag8eirive baserunning. lnrtructs your runneE !o take
chances.

SUNTr
H&

R'

&

H'

R

Tells your balter lo bunt.This play tums off if lhe batter
has rwo strikes,
it and .un. Runner atlempls to steal as the batter uie. lo
make contaet wirh rhe ball,
H

Run and hit. Runnerattempt! !o steal; the bauer can rwinS
if he likes d|e pilch.

I Xtr

Tells ba[er not !o swin8,

LIAIX)FF

Telk lhe runner

STEAI2'
STEAT 3+
STEAI H'

Telk the man on fird lo attempla rteal.
Telk the man on second to atlempt a rGal.

D

STTAL'

SQUttZd

lD l.ke a lonSer le.d. (If you rum lhis on
in PIay and Man.ge mode, you'E re+onrible Io' ratoming lhe runner to b.se in a pickoffauemp0.

Tells the runner on lhhd to attempt to steal home.

Double steal. lnslructs two barerunners !o steal simultaneously.
Tells the runne. on third to break for home as dte ball is

bunled.

PIAY
HIOE
NO

Caneli allplaysexcepl HIDE.
Displays the name of lhe pla',r onlyr lhe orvott statu3 of
the playr are hidden. Usefulfor two-player gamer.

Notavailablc in Arclde Came.
Not.vailable in Play & ManaSe mode.

Not

on barerunninS: When you?e playin8 in Play & Mana8e mode at

maioror mim.leaSue levelr, you mustcontlolthe lead runner youlselt
15

To close the menu, press Fl0. Or, highlight READY and then press
J, or click either joyslick or nrouse button.

e

or

14. Finirhing an Arcade Game.
lf the score isn't tied after nine inninSs, the game is over and the hi8h
scorer wins, lf there is a tie, the teams will continue play until somebody
breaks the tie and fte home team has had last ups. You can quit a Bame
if you don't want to finish it by pressing Fl0. You can't sa!e Arcade
Cames-

At the end of each Same you complete, you'll see a screen with a recap
of the final score. The dimmed items are unavailable in the Arcade
Came. See page 30 for complete details on this screen.

Now )ou know everything you need to know as a coach and player in
the Arcade Came. When you're comfortable with the Arcade Came, you
can move on to the Full Program where you'll have many new options

17

Q rr.arrxc rnE FULa PnocRAM
About Stals Disks and Playet Stats...
You?e going to see a lot of references to stats. A stals disk is where
player, team, league, and park information is stored. You must
have a stats disk to play a game- If you've installed your disks as
outlined in Chapter 1, you've already made a stats disk (if you're
using a hard drive, the stats will be in the path you created).
Players have two types of stats: rcal stalr and accumulated stats.
The real stats are the stats that came on the master Earl Weaver
Baseball disks; they're the players'historical sta6. The accumulated
stats are the onesthe players accrue after each game they play.
Real stats never change; accumulated stats do. A player's performance durin8 a game is affected by his real stats, not his accumu-

lated stats.

1.

Choose FULI- PROGRAM from lhe Pre-Game menu and you'll get
the Full Progaam main menu.

18

2.

Select the teams.
The teams that automatically come up in the Full Program a.e AL 00-30
and NL 00-30. lfthe home or visiting team isn't the one you want,
choose SELECTTEAM under HOME or VISITORS (depending on the
team you want to change) and you'll see a list ofteams you can choose

from.

3.

Chooce from KCYEOARD, XEYPAD, IOYSTICK 1 or MOUSE as you.

input device.
Noae On Tandy machines/ the mouse is replaced by JOYSTICK 2. To
use a mouse? you must inslall your mouse driver before runnin8 Earl
weaver Baseball.

4.

Choose the managing option.
YOU MANACE
You call the plays for your team and the computer

-

controls the playerc.
PIAY AND MANACE
You conrol player movement 6itting, pitching, fielding, etc.) and manage, too.
EARL MANACES- ea.l calls the shots and the computer moves the

-

players.

5.

Choose lhe skill level of play.
MAJOR LEACUE
The most advanced. Pitches are harder to hit.
MINOR LEACUE
A Iittle easier than Major Lea8ue.
SEMI PRO
The players run faster, field faster, and can hit more
pitches. Compute. controls all runners.
sAND LOT- The easiest sefting. Computer contols all runners.

-

-

5. Ihe

pilching style affects lhe length oI your game.
(Available unless one team is in Play and Manage
ONE PITCH
mode.) The fast game. one key pitch represents an entire at-bat (unless
a foul ball is hit o. a special play is put on).

-

t9

FULL AT BAT

-

You see every pitch.

7.

Choode whether you want league or nonleaEue play.
LEACUE
lnjured players are lnavailable for a ceftain number of
games (dependingon the nature ofthe injury), and staning pitchers
cant pitch in back-to-back league games. Earl Weaver Baseball compiles a set of league stats that includes team and player pe ormance information. You can sa!e these stats after the game (as long as a copy of
the teams are on your stats disk). league stas arent used in determining
player aclion during a 8ame. You must have a stats disk ready if you
plan to use lea8ue play.
NON LEACUE
Every player on your roster is available for every

-

8ame.

-

8. rte

groond rules are for the home team's ball park
lf you want to change the park, choose this and you'll
SE|ECI PARK
get a list of the 32 real and fantasy ball parks. The current park is the
home team's park.

-

9.

Use lhe regular nine-man lineup or have a designated hitter,
NINE MAN LINEUP
Choose this if you don't want a designated hitter. The pitcher will hit for himself.
DTSICNATED HtfIER
Choose this to have a designated hiner (who
will bat fcr your pitcher),

-

-

10. Choo6e the game mode.
RECULATION GAME
This lets )ou selectthe staning lineup. Players
perform according to thek real statistics. You can also accumulate the
final stats and/or save games in pro8ress.
ARCADE GAME
Earl selecs the lineup for both teams; you can't
change either. Each player performs at a peak level of performance;
players do not fatigue or get injured.

-

-

2T

.

Decide whether o. not players can be iniured.
Players can only get injured for the remainder of the
will still fatigue and .equire a few days off.
INJURIES OCCUR
Players can Bet injured for mo.e than one Same
(except in the ARCADE GAME mode). The number of games that an injured player will miss depends on the nature ofthe injury.
1 1

No

lNrU RIES
Earne. Pitchers

-

-

12.

Use other features.
The options under THINCS TO DO let you change a number of features
in Earl weaver Baseball. You don't have to make changes now; you can
always come back to this menu after the game.
PLAY BALI
Choose this when you'rc ready to pick your sta(ing

-

pitcher and lineup in Regulatlon mode. ln Arcade mode, yor./ will immediately staft the game. If you haven't already done so, you'll need to ente. your season ticket pass number. On the codewheel, line up the nadium name with the seating section information. Nextto the stadium
area you see a small window with a number in iq type in that number
and press Enter.
PMCTICE
This lets you warm up before the game. You can work on
pitching, batting, baserunnin8, and fielding. See Chaptet 6, Praclice
Opttont for complete details.
CENERAL MANACER
This option lets you trade, draft, clone, and
edit players so you can build your own team. See Chaplet T, Genenl
Managet Options, lot aomplete details.
LOOK AT PARK
Lets you look at the currently selected ball park.
DISPLAY 5TATS
Lets you view stats in a number ofdifferent ways.
See Chapter 8, Diiplay Statistics Opliont for complete details.
Resume a prcviousiy saved game. You're
CONTINUI A GAME
list
games;
shown a
of
select the one you want to resume.
COMMISSIONER
tets you customize leagues, divis;ons, teams and
ball park. Also lets you create new stats disks. see chapter 9, commissionet Options, lot comp lete detai ls.

-

-

-

-

-

21

Select PLAY EALL to continue with the game.
1

3. Pick a

starling pitcher.

visiting Team Pitcher: The list on the riSht shows all the available
pitchers: you'll see R fo. a right hander or L for a left hander, his name,
eamed run avera8e, wonJoss record, and fatigue ratin8. lf you're playin8 Ea.l, you can override his choice by highlighting a pitcher from the
list, pressinS Enter, highlighting the pitcher currently on the lineup card,
and pressing Enter again. The pitchers willexchange places,
ASK EARL
Choose this to have Earl choose the starting pitcher (or
lineup when you choose your lineup). You can override any of his
choices,
PRINT LINEUP-This leB you print the lineup for both teams. Left-handers are marked with an asterisk (') and swirch hitters are marked with a
pound sign (#). If your printer is not attached and on line when you attempt to print, you will "hang" the computei you'll have to turn off the
computer and start over again. Printing the lineup is a good ldea. You'll
get the lineups for each team and the players available on the bench in
the bullpen.
EACK UP
This returns you to the previous screen.
FINISHED
Choose this when youte satisfied with the selection.

-

-

22

Home Team Pilchei Select the horne team pitcher. To put a pitcher in
the lineup, highlight his name and press Enter. Then move the cursor
over to the numberyou want him at in the lineup and press Enter. lf
you're using a designated hiner, put the pitcher in the blank slot below
'9" so the pitcher won't be in the batting order. Choose ASK EARL if
you want Earl's choice. Select FIN'SHED when you're done.
14. Finish filling out the lineup cards.

I

,t!umr

3:

Visiting Team Lineup: The visitor fills out his card first. lf )ou'.e playing
Earl, you can override any ofhis choices. Just highlight a player from the
list on the left, press Enter, highlight a player currently on the lineup
card, and press Enter again. The playerswill exchange places.

Home Team Lineup: Fill out the home lineup. To put a player on the
lineup, highlight him on the list, press Enter, move the cursor to a
number on the lineup and press Enter again. You mun have a player
foreach position, otherwise, when you try to continue, you'il see
"Complete your defense.'

23

Pop Up a Stats Card

You can look at any player's stats on your lineup or roster by highlighting that player and then pressing the space bar Press rhe
space bar again to close the stats card. See "Reading Player Stats"
in Chaptet 7 , Ceneral Managet Options, lot complete details on
player stats.

Players with dimmed names (in leaSue play only) aren't active and can't
play in thisSame. lf a pla)er is dimmed due to injury or fatigue, the
number to the left ofhis name indicates how many more games he'll
mi55.

Player Po6itioN: A player will play the position that appears to the left
of his name. lf you want a player to play somewhere else, go to the
small menu atthe lower left ofthe screen that contains allthe @sitions.
Highlight the position you want him to play and press Enrer. Move rhe
cursor on top of the player on the lineup card and pr6s Enter to assign
him his new position, You can't change a playet"s position unless his
name is on the lineup catd.
Player Positions

P
1B
28
38
Ss

24

Pitcher
First base
Second base

Third base
Short stop

C
l"F
CF
RF
DH

catcher
teft field
Center field
Right field
Oesignated hitter

Select FINIsHED when youle done with your lineup.

5. Take a final look al youi lineup and ft6{er.
The home team is on the iop half ofthe screen while the visitinS team is
1

on the boftom half.

---

=L]&i

rN@

t-i-i;;i;Er TFid;"
It's not too late to chan8e the startinS lineup. Just hiShliSht the player
you want to put into the lineup and press Enter. Then highliSht the
pla'er you want out of the lineup and press Enter. The two players will
swap places.

This lets you warm !p a pitcher when your pitcher on the
BULL PEN
mound is staning to show erratic performance. See step 18, below, for
complete details on the bull pen.

-

DlsPl"AY sTATs
shows you the c!rrcntly-highlighted playe/s
-This
main stats. ,ust hiShlight the player whose stats you want to view. To
view a player's complete stats, highlight his name and press the space
bar. (see Chapter 8, Display Staristics options,lor complete information
on statistics.)

25

'15. Phy ball!
Horne team takes the field and visitingteam is up at bat. lf you're in
Play and Manage mode, you'lldnectli control pitchin& fieldin& baning
and runninS. see Chaptet 4, Playing the Arcade Came, for instructions
on how to control your players.

17. Use your Slrategy mmus.
The Strate8y menus let you call plays from the du8out. Press the space
bar to open them. lf youte playing against tarl, he automatically calls
the plays for his team so you can't change his Strategy menu. Plays unavailable to you because of Eame circumstances are dimmed. Plays that
are "on'have a dot to the rightofthem. To close the menu, press Fl0.
Or, highlight READY and then p.ess r- or -r, or click either joystick o.
mouse button. If you're playing against a human opponent, both players
must close their menus.

18. Use your bull pen when lhe pildEr sla.ts to lirc.
signs of fatigue include wild pitches, low-speed pitches (check the
speed with the radar gun by pressing R), and successave batters getting
hit!.
When your pitcher begins to tire, you can visit the mound by calling a
conference (choose CONFERENCE from the Strategy menu or press F8).
On the mound, the pitcher and catcher answer the question "How's the
arm?" The pitche/s answer is based on whether his arm is tirin& while
the catcher's answer is based on the speed and accuracy ofthe pitches.
The number of pitches thrown so far appears at the bottom of the conference box.
A pitcher's endurance is based on his actual major league stats or on
endurance ratings you've entered. Some pitchers can throw more
26

pitches than others before their arm tires. The more familiar you become
with a pitcher, the better you can 8au8e how long he can throw.

If you decide to switch pitchers, you can either bring the reliever in immediately or give him a chance to warm up in the bull pen. Relievers
pitch better if you let them warm up first. Open the lineup card by
pressing L or by pressing the space bar and selecting LINEUP from the
Strateg!, menu. Hi8hli8ht a pitcher and press Enter. Move the cursor to
either slot under BULI-PEN and press Enter.
Next to his name you'll see the pitche/s warmup status: CID means
he's cold; oK lets you know he's looseninS up (after one batterl wRM
means he's almod ready to play (after two battersL RDY means he's
ready for the mound (after three batters). To bring in the reliever, hi8hlight his name, press Enter, hi8hllghtthe pitcher currently in the lineup,
and press Enter. Donl leave a pitcher in the bullpen too long o. his effecliveness and durability will d.op,

If you want to bypass the bullpen, highliBht a pitcher from the roster and
press Enter, Highlight the pitcher in the lineup and press Enter to have
the reliever go straight to the mound. Wa.ning: when a pitche. skips the
bullpen, he won't be adequately warmed up for at least two batters.
19. Find out who's on base and who's on deck.
Press B to find out who's on base and to see the speed ratings for the
curent baserunners. Ease.unner ratings are on a scale of 1 (slowest) io
'10 (fa$esd.

You'll also find olt whothe on-deck batter

is.

20.

Replace a balter or runner,
Durin8 the 8ame. you can replace a batter or runner with a pinch hitter
or tunner. Open the lineup card by pressing t or by pressing the space

27

bar and selecting LINEUP from the Strategy menu. Highlight the player
you want to come in and press Enter. Then highlight the name ofthe
batter or runner you want to eplace and press Enter. Once you replace
a player at bat or on base, that player is out for the rest of the game.

21. Check a playe/s statistics.
You can look at a player's statistics at anytime by popping up his stats
card. Open the lineup card by pressin8 L or by pressingthe space bar
and selecting LINEUP from the StrateSy menu. Highlight a player and
then press the space bar to open his stats card. Press the space bar again
to close the stats card. See "Reading Player Stats' in Chafiet 7, Ceneral
Managet Opidls, foa ca,inplete details on player stats.

22. Try out the many featu.es in lhe tame.
Wind conditions: Press F7 to see lhe current wind conditions. Prevailang
winds affect the distance and direction the ball canies, so position your
outfielders accordingly. Conditions can change every half inning. Wind
conditions vary from ball park to ball park.
lnstant Replay: Press I to see an instant replay. To see an instant replay
in slow motion, press M. Press F to advance frame by frame; press any
keyto resume normal slow motion (you must have 5'l2K of memory for
this to work).
Radar

gun: Press

R

to get a radar reading of the last pitch.

Umpke call: Press U to find out what the last pitch was. You get the
ump's call on the aclual pitch. Lefs say you swung at a high curveball
that was a ball and missed; the ump will rell you the lasr pitch was a
ball e!en though it counted as a strike.

2a

Sound: Press F3 to togSle the sound on and off.
These are just a few things you can do. Check out 'Key Commands" on
the Manageds Card for a list of all the features you can use.

23. Save the 8ame.
Press 16 to save the game. You'll be pompted to enter a name and then
you'll return to the 8ame. Press F10 if you want to return to the main
menu (A,oler The

fxit key F1O returns you to the main menu without
saving your game. Be sure to press F6 before you press F'l 0 if )ou want
to save
same.) When you wantto resume your 8ame, select CONTINUE A
GAME
from the Full Program main fircnu and then select your
'/our
from
saved Bame
the listNole To Tandy Use6: lf you'.e playinSon a Tandywith 512Kor more
of memory andloule using a joystick, you can't reload a saved game
in tCA mode. To get back into a saved game, you must reload Earl
Weaver Baseball in CCA mode by typing WEAVER C; then you can
resume the Same in joystick rnode.

24.

Finish lhe game and update the slats.
When you finish the Bame, you'll see the following screen:

29

H
w
Sv

Hils

DP
GWREI

winnin8 pitcher

T

baned in (if applicable)

Savins

pitchs

(i, appliGble)

The Box Score shows )ou the batting and pitching statistical breakdown

for bodr teams, You can print all or some of the information to SCREEN,
PRINTER, or DISK.
REPLAY
Lets you review the game-ending
SLOW MOTION REPLAY
Les you review
slow motion.
UPDATE PLAYER STATS
updates the
-This
lated from the game to your stat5 disk.
UPDATE WL RECORDS
This updates the
lated from the game to your stats disk.

-

-

-

a

the Same-ending play in
player statistics accumu-

bam statistics accumu-

Both teams must come from the same path or disk in order for
UPDATE PTAYERS STATS and UPDATE WL RTCORDS to work

correctly.

30

play.

Q nnlcrrcE oPTroNs
selcct PRACTICE from lhe Full Program main menu for all of the
followint oplions.

8'firng

Pt4,aliae

ln battin8 practice, you get the following pitches: 5 each of medium
fastballs, fast fastballt cuNe ballt and screwballs;20 strikes (assoned;
and an unlimited mix ofstrikes and balls. If you wantto go strai8ht to
swinging at a random assortment ofpitches (great for training your eye),
press M. To return to the "5 each" drill, press M a8ain.

Fie'd;ing Ptaatiae
For the first

where

Earl

panotfielding practice, you do the infield/outfield drill
tells yor.r where to throw the ball. then as the practice

progresses, you go to lhe situational drill where Earl calls situations like
"'l on, 2 ouf; you must decide where to throw the ball. Earl doesn't
le{ you off the hook until you toss the ball to the right place. To toggle
betlveen the two types of pracllce, press F.
31

Pttahing Ptacarcc
You can throw any son of pitch )/1ou want for as long as you want. As
is in the game, the pitch is composed of th.ee parh: the type of pitch,
the location, and the delivery/destination.

a

it

To end any of these practice sessions, press F] 0.

Q crxrnlL

MANAcER oPTroNs

Select CENERAL MANACER from lhe FullProgram main menu
all of the following options.

for

As ceneral Manager you can build your own franchise by tradin& draftin8, cloning, or even buildin8 new superstars from scratch.

32

n.eadh'8 Pt'.',e] Sl'Ils
Understanding a player's stat card is important if you want to analyze
your playe/s strengths and weaknesses. Highlight any player and press
the space bar to view his stats. You'll see one of the iwo following
screens depending on whether the player is a pitcher or fielder. Press
the space bar again to close the stats card.
Player Slab for Fieldet

l-I lll" l. te r!"
Player Stab for Pitche.

br.r.: r - ---:::.:

!-l

l

tf3. Fre t'"

33

Here's a list of the abbreviations you'll see on the siatistic screens. Not
every playe/s sqeen will contain every abbrcviatitn listed below.

sletislics Ahbrsialions

tb

H&t

Sin8le

Hit & Run 6ting

HR
IP

2b

3b

L

o8A

IA

Primary lieldanS posi(ion

BAIJ(

?2

8B

PD

CG

cs

seonddy

t

fi eldi,E

poririd

'Righf it after 8Ars,

caught steling

E

ET
ERA

RBI

Ett

s
slug8ins

avege

s8
FieldinS awa8e at Fimary

so

EA-2
f{ituc'
c
GWRBI
cs

daty position
Pitche''s htigue Eting
cames played

vs lefi-hdd pitdE s (if
player k nota pit her) or

Carewinnin8

balta

HB

Hh

Fieldan8

avsSe at

eq-

SH

(al plays i5 a pirchq)
Vr ight-hand pnchds (if
player b dot a pikhed o,
banss (it plays ir a pitchet

RBI

cam6 naned
bitchsr dly)

B.itd

e.
' ne.&Bone
peftaiu,

t to todth1tF@, dik t l*,lAtlp l@4 a M.ge,.'xl to$2 A$.4
Ahhougl rlet .6cd Plzy ln .ll ryps ol gzrc. rhel hzve tEn g.aa .tu.t la
i,ininethe Pit he
Onlf nbd<. t.IiE@ dtinAft* Ph.tnElhyu lpgututdyhaw
irt 6eeic hit t li.sin ta ebrh. AldDudl th.* t t: Es baed M n.!i ial dal. Ihey have
m elarent ol ebl..ivity. tl tu d.a t .8@ wxh 2 ttth8, Jbu d.h.age L

thing to
M.aJe]c

.i

34

*i

4

ffif

Dditit a P!,I{et Stors
when you edit a player, you can change his stats and ratings. select
EDIT PLAYER. Selecl a player, press Enter and the Edit Player window
oPens up.
lnputting Stats
To chanSe an item, hi8hlightlhe item, press Enter, t)?e in the revision,
and press Enter aSain (or you can press Tab in place of the last Enter to
accept the revision and move to the next field. Use your riSht cursor or
Tab to move from field to field. Press Escto recall an ori8inal value (you
mu$ presg this before you move to the next field). Slome entries, like BA
(bafting average) and FA (fielding average)can't be changed because
theyre calculated from otherentries. Here are a couple ofthings you
need to know when inputting stats:

Yean This number represents the year in which the player accrued the
staG. Since pofessional baseball began around 1845, that's the earliest
year you can enter.
Pocition: The first time you enter a playe/s position (Pl), enter the
nlmber that represents the player's primary position. lf $e player is not
a pitcher, he can have a secondary position. For programming purposes,
we've added a couple of extra numbers to thF standard numbering
system for normal baseball positions. You cai also use the standard
abbreviations for a pla)er's position.

35

Player Position Numbe.s

2

orC

catcher

3or1B
o.28
5or38
5orSS
TotlE
4

aorlt

teftfield

1o or RF
11 o. Of

center fleld
Rlghtfield
Oudield

9orCt

Third base

l2 orOF

oudield

shorrs!op

13 of DH

Designaled hitter

lnfield

Split statistics lets you break stats down into ri8ht- and
left-hand categories. For instance, a batter's split stats show his effective-

SPLIT 5TAT5

ness against left-handed pitchers ardri8ht-handed pitchers, rather than
against pitchers in general. lf the player is a pitcher, you can check out
his effectiveness against ri8ht- and left-handed batte6. The more information you supply, the more true-tolife the game simulations will be.
You must enter left and right stat5 separately.

when you're entering Split Stats, you can't enie. information for some
of the stats in Croup l. Much of the information in Group I is calculated from the stats that you enter in Croup 2 under the VsL and VsR
categories,
TOTAL STATS
TOTAL STATS les you dkectly enter stats for Croup 1 .
It does not show the VsL and VsR (croup 2) information. when you
switch to Split Stats, the information you entered in Croup I will show
only in the VsL row; the VsR row will contain zeroes. The computer
tries to break down the $ats as logically as possible. For accurate Split
Stats figures, you should enter the information in Split Staa mode,

-

RESET STATS

If you've made changes to a player's stats and wish you
- REsET
STATS to recall the original stats.

hadn't, choose
35

CLEAR STATS
CLEAR STATS deletes every entry on the screen. After
you clear stats, you can re-enter new information for this player or use
the blank sc.een for another player. Select RESET STATS if you decide
not to clearthis player's stats,

-

SAVe STATS
After you've made chan8es to the playe/s stats, this lets
you save his revised rtats onto his team's roster. lf you want these stats
saved permanently on disk, you must save the entire team by selecling
SAVE fiom $e CENERAL MANAGER screen. If you don't save the entire
team, then all changes to this pla)er will be loswhen you return to the
main menu screen.

-

ACCUMULATED STATS
cial scorcr, you can chanSe
player's card. Keep in mind
performance, only real $ats

-

If you disagree with the decision of the offithe accumulated sta6 at the bottom ofa
that accumulated stats don't aftect a playe/s
do.

Tt,,ding P,agerc
To vade a player, select TRADE PLAYeR. Highlight a player from one
roster and press Enter. Then highlight a playeron the other team's rcster
and press Enter. The names on the two rosters automatically reverse to
complete the trade.
To trade with a team otherthan the one currently onscreen, choose
SELECT TEAM for the team nolinvolved with the trade. You'll see your
list of teams. Choose the one you want to trade with and that team will
replace the current team on the scrcen. You must save for the fiade to
be permanent.

37

IrtoJti'ng

Pl''',tt

You can draft a player from any team without givingthem anyone in
retu.n. Select TRADE PLAYeR. Make sure you have an empty spot on
your roster. lf you don1, you'll have to delete sornebody.

Highlight the word DRAFT: and press Enter. Type the /a$ name ofthe
player you wantto find. The program searches for names with the letters
that you type. For example, if you type "C," the program searches for
all players whose last narne begins with "C." If you type "Car," the
computer will search for all names that stan with "Car," like Carey and
Carter. Draft will search for the name on the path/disk that you lan
loaded.

when the computer finds a match, you have three choicest move the
player to the Draft window with DRAFT; continue to search with NEXT;
or stop the search with CANCEL. lf you draft a player, highlight his
name from the draft window and press Enter. Then highlight an empty
space on the roster and press Enter to complete fie draft.
You must save each team for the trade to become permanent.

Dcleling P|'J,eB
To delete a player, select TRADE PLAYER. Select a player and then
move him to the DEIETE window. The name won't be deleted immediately; this Eives you a chance to retrieve him if you change your mind.
The player will be deleted when ),ou place another name in the DETETE
window. If you accidently delete a player, dont worry. Nothing is permanent until you save your changes to disk; just don't save it to disk if
you made a mistake.

38

Cron nA

Pr'/ri''

You can make as manyduplicates of a ptayer as you have room for in
your roner. Select CLONE PLAYER. Highlight any player and press Enter. Move the cursor to a blank spot on the roster and press Enter to
clone the player. You can't done a player if you don't have an empty
space on your roster; delete somebody if you need to.

Cleatlng Ne,ut Plage,ts
lf you want to create new players without deleting existing ones, select
EOIT. Move the cursor to a blank spot on the roster and press Enter.
You'll see a blank stat cand; fill itout and then save the new playe..

If you don't have a blank spot on your roster, you'll have to delete a
pla)er. Or you can create a new team and build a roster from scratch.
Another ahernative is to copy a team, change the players' names, and
edit their stats to your satisfaclion.

I'ISPLAI STATISTTCS
OPTIONS

Selecl DISPLAY STATISTICS Irorn ihe Full Program main menu

for

all of the following options,
Earl Weaver Baseball lets you display statistics in a number ofways.

39

Choose where you want the data to go to. lf
you send the inlormation to disk, it will be stored in a text file that you
can work with through a word processor,
SCREEN/PRINTER/DISK

-

FROM REAL STATS/FROM ACCUM 5TAT5
REAL STATS aie the
pla)e/5 real life stats. They're the ones that came on youroriginal Earl
weaver Baseball disks. ACCUM STATS are the slats a player accumulates when you actually playthe game.

HICHESTTO LOWESTAOWEST TO HICHEST-Choose if you want
your srats to be displayed from the highest value to the lowest value, or
vice verca.
LEAGUE NAMES
All-Time League isthe one that comes on your
-The
original Earl weaver Baseball disks.
LIST LEADERS IN:

BA
HR
RBI
eRA
40

Eatting average
Home runs
Runs bafted in
Earned run average

wlNS

Cames won for pitchers

50

Strike outs for pitchers

8Y NUMBER: You can list a number of other stats by entering a number
code that represents a specific cabgory. The lists below shows all the
codes 1ou can enter for batters and for pitchers for real and accumulated stats. Real statt are rhe stats dra corre on fie anaser dislc Accumulated stats are fie stats that the players accrue after each Bame
played,

a

For a conplete key to all the abbreviations used in the folloring
tables, see $e Statistic5 Abbeviations table on page 34.

Real Stats for Eatterr
Ri8hrHanded

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
lo
l1
12

t3
14
ts
16

8A
G
A8
R
H
2b
3b
HR
RBt
5H

17 BA

l8 AB
l9X
m2b
21 3b
22 HR
23 BB
2450
25 SA
x o8A

27 BA
28 A8

29H
:Xt 2b
3! 3b
32 HR
33 BB

37
38

H&R

39
/l()

4l
12

34 50
35 S\
36 0BA

8B
SO

s8

cs

5{
OBA

4t

Real Stds for Pitchers
vs.

46 1
47 ERA
480
49 CS
50 cG
51 5V
52 tP
53H
54 ER
55 HR
56 BB
57 SO
5A HB
59 Balk

Left.Han.k

Vr. RiSht-Hdded

SdLB
60 8A
61 H66H
52 HR
63 88
64 SO

Ads
65 8A
67 HR
58 88
59 SO

71 Control
Z2 Fatlgue
73 Bunt

Accumulated Statr for Balters and Pitchers
Pildin8

IBA
2G
3AB
4R
5H
6 21,
73b
AHR
9 RBI
IO BB
l1 so
12 5A
t.i oBA
l5 sA
42

glrt

17 I
16 ERA
19 G5
21 lP
22H
23 ER
2s BA
25 SO

76 AB
77H
Z8 HR
79 SH

LIST REQUIREMENTS:

MIN AT BATS
Enterthe minimum number ofar bats thatthe player
mu$ have to quali9 for the list,
MIN lN NINCS
Enter the minimum number of innings that a player
must have played to qualify for the list,
LIST LENCTH
Enter how many playem you want on this list

-

-

sHow:
STANDINGS

Shows accumulated won/loss record.
you print the roster for any team or the lea8ue roste.s.
Select SKIP TEAM to call up the nen team. lf you select League Roster,
it begins with the first ream in the selecled leaSue even if you've skipped
ahead a few teams.
TEAM TOTALS
Sho\rs rhe bafting and pitching btals for all teams in
the cunent (seleded league.
ROSTERS

-

-

Lets

-

0 COMMISSIONER OPTIONS
o

Select COMMISSIONER from the Full Program main menu for all
of the following options.

Cu5ao.t.. a..is
C{5ao.ir. r.!rr
eul.Bor.

D.t.t. .lt rl.s.!s di
Cr.t. ..r l..eu.

re.F

43

Customize lzaguet
CUSTOMIZE LeAGUES lets you name or rcname leagues and divisions.
Highlight any ofthe slots, press Enter, type in a name, and press Enter
a8ain. Select FINISHED and the new names are savd onto )/our stats
disk,
To create a new league, use the "Create New League on New DisV

Path' option.

Customtze tearns
SeIecI CUSTOMIZE TEAMS and you'll see a list of the teams on your
stats disk. Selectthe team you want to customize and press Enter.

(RE)NAME

name or rename a team, hiShlight the existing name or

-To
the blank space next to (RE)NAME, press Ente., type in a name, and
press Enter again.

STADIUM
ball pa* must be on the same disk as the team you
-The
want to aftach itto. Select the ball park after STADIUM, seleclthe name
ofthe stadium you want foa the home field, and press Enter.
DTLETE ALL PLAYERS
Seleclthis to empty out the locker room, This
feature is useful when you want to 5tart a team from src.atch. You can
cop, clone, or oeate new players using the General Manager options.

-

To recolor uniforms, choose from any of the eight
colors. Noter onlyTandy and EcA will display these colo6.

TEAM COLOR

44

COPY TEAM
Moves teams from division to division, disk to disk, or
even within the same division. To copy a team:

-

1.
2.

Highlight a blank space and prcss Enter.
Choose COPY TeAM. When you're prompted to "lnsert Source Stats
Disk," insen the disk containing the team you want to copy and seIect READY.

3.

You now see a path selection list. Make sure the right path is selected and then select FINISHED.

4.

Select the team you want to cop, insertthe disk you're copying to
at the "lnsen Destination Disk" Fompt, and select READY. When
the team is copied to the destination disk, the customize team rnenu
appears so )iou can change the team if you want. lf you donl want
to customize this team, select FINISHED to return to the list of teams.
Use CANCEL if you decide not to copy the team.

To crcale a newleam...

The leaguethat comes on your Ead weaver Baseball disk hasthe maximum number ofteams that the Came disk can hold. To create more
teams, you thould create a new league to put them in. See 'Create New
Lea8ue on New Disk/Path," below, for details on creating a new league.
Once you cteate a new league, you can create new teams. ln your new
league, select a blank spot on the team list screen and press Ente.. You'll
get all the options under "Customize Team,'above. If you don't want to
construct a team entirely from scratch, you can copy ateam and then
editthe team and player information to your liking.

45

C',,rtomlzc Pa'ks
choose CUSTOMIZE BALL PARKS b create your own park. Select the
existing ball park you want to work from and click the button.
Notice dle LOOK AT PARK option in the lover left-hand corner of your
screen. Seled this option to see how )/our remodeling or new constn ction prorect is pro8res6ing. You can also look at the park by pressinS the
space bar.
name or

park, highlight the

or
a
existing
-To
the blank space next to (RONAME, press Enter, type in a name, and
name

{RONAME

renarne

p(ess Enter again.
NATU RAVARTIFICIAI

oUTDOoMNDOOR

-

Chooce

fie type of turf you want.

Choose a domed or open-ah stadium.

BLEACHERS
Choose the settings fo. the four sections of bleachers.
Enter a number from 1 to 4:

-

1

2
3
4

-

The bleacher has one deck.
lt has 2 deckslt has 3 decks.
lt has 3 decks and a rmf.

HEICHT
These are the height settings for the oudield wall. The diagram below shows you where each part ofthe wall is, The height ofthe
wall is measured in feeJWall Min

-

LI, RI
L2, R2

t3,

R3

3

14, R4

4

c
46

3
3

6

40
40
40
20
20

DISTANCES-This isfie distance to each part ofthe outfield wall. The
diagram below shows you where the lines are. The distance is measured
in feet.

Line Min tength
Left line
244
Right line
244
L2,R2
260
13, R3
300
14, R4
320
cL, cR
340

I'tax Length
355
355
400

4s0
46s
480

when you enter height or distance figures, you can enter 000 to
autooatical ly 8et the lowest value or 999 for the highest.

-l

-r."

Jwas

47

To creale a new park...
Select a blank spot on the screen frat lists the parks and press Enter.
Enter the above information and save the park when you?e done.

Oront d lral, Ofi
Records a day off in the accumulated lea8ue data on your stats disk,
givin8the teams a day of rest and recuperation. You can grant as many
days off as you want. This option is only effeclive if you're playinSwith
the l-eague option ON. See Chapter 1 l, seri4g Up you Own LeagE,

for more informatlon on running your own leagues.

Co!,!' Oie Batt Path
when you choose this option, you're asked to insert the source disk; this
is the disk that the park you want to copy is on. If you're lsing a hard
drive, you'll also have to select the correct path. After you select the
correct path, select FINISHED. Choose the ball park you want to copy
by highlighting it and pressing Enter. when you're asked to insen the
deflination disk. insen the disk that )lou want fie park copied to. Yo{r'll
see the set Path screen a8ain. After you select the correct path, select

FlNlSHED. when you're shown the ball park list, highlight a blank spot
and press Enter to copy the pa* to that blank spot. lfthere's no blank
spot you can highlight an existin8 ball park and the new park will be
copied over the existing one.

E']ase Saoeit carncs
Permanently removes ail the saved games from the stats disk in the
currently selected disk drive or palh.

48

Delet Nl P't,lfs' a'f'dt

o,fr.t

This leaves an empty set of player and team files on the stats disk in the
cur.ently selected disk drive or path. The files are 'blanked out."

C'reat4 Neut

l2aguc

ort Ne',, DlshlP.a',h

This command places blank league, park, and player data files on a new
disk or in a new disk path. lf you'.e using floppy diskt you'll need a
blank, formatted disk. lf you're using a hard drive, the program will create a new path on your drive; you'll be asked for a path name.

Clc at Ac ct$r'',,l,'z,' Stott
select this option to clearout all the acarmulated Jfatr on your current
stats disk. The original /eal slats remain unahered on your disk.

Cleat WonlLo.tl necotdt
lf )rou complete a season and want to start a brand new one, or if your
record isn't too impressive and you want to forget the season altogether,
you can reset all of the teams' won/4oss records to 0-0 with this option.

49

trrs FRoM TaE
@
- MASTER TECNNTCTAN
It all began in st. Louis, where Earl's father owned a dry cleaning firm.
Arnong his clients were $e SL Louis Cardinals and the St. Louis Browns.
(The St. Louis Browns would later move to Bakimore and become the
Orioles.) Needlessto say,dle weaver family made many tripsto spoftsman's Park.

"As a kid I would carry the unifoms in and out of the clubhouse,' says
Weaver. "ln my mind, there was never any doubtthat l'd make the majors. Eetween the Cards and the Browns, I would go to a hundred games
a year. I had a 'Me and Paul' T-shirt I loved the old Cas House GanB
with Pepper Manin, Joe Medwick, Dizzy and Pall Dean." Earlwatched
that team and the other 5t. Louis teams to follow, and by age thirteen he
was already second-guessing Cardinals' manager Billy Southworth (who
had an impressive .593 winning percentage).
Earl enioyed an outstandlng career as a second baseman for Beaumont

High, and after his senior year the Browns and the Cardinals both wanted to sign him. Earl chose the Cards when Walter Shannon, the minorleague director, pointed to second base at Sportsman's Park and told
Earl, "One day you'll play there,"
ln the minor-leaguet Earl rode the buses and grew tough on the $1.25a-day meal money. He played ball whether the temperature was 32 or
'I
02 degrees, and in his second year of pro ball, he drove in 1 0l runs
while hitting only two homers, Earl was named Most Valuable Player in
his leaSue in two of his firsl four years, and all four of his teams won
titles.

50

After eightyears of beating the bushes, Earldecided he wasn't Soing to
make the majors, and late in the 1956 season he became the playermanager for the Knoxville Smokies. The next year, the Orioles hired Earl
to run their Class D club in Fitzgerald, Ceorgia. Earl was starting at the
bottom as a manager just as he had done as a player, but this time he
would make it to the top.

weaver's digdain
victories.
His distinclive
for defeat drove his teams to an incredible 1407
flair for managing and uncanny abilityto consistently produce winning
one of
clubs enabled him to compile a winninB percentage of .592
the besl in major league history. whercver Earl Weaver went, he won
from Elmira to Rochester and finallyto Baltimore, where he led the
Orioles to a first or second place finish in the American League East
Division thirteen ofthe sixteen years he managed the club. DurinS his
entire career, his clubs posted only wo losing seasons.
During his 29 years

as a major league manager, Earl

-

-

"lt's simple," says Earl, "l love baseball, and I love to win." And to help
you enjoy Earl weaver Baseball to the maximum, Ea.l has kindly agreed
to impan some ofhis widom here. ln the following sections you'll find
gems that will help make you the tops in your own league.

norne ng,ns
"The home run is my favorite subjecl. lt's the most exciting play in baseball
the sport's knockout punch. lt's often the dlfference between
winning and losing.

-

"The minute you hit a homer, you have a run, no questions asked. with
anlthing else, you aren't guaranteed a run. On a home run, nothing can
go wrong. You can't be robbed by a fielder makinga geat catch or by

5l

your baserunner fallingdown or by someone beinB thrown out. Why
people can't see that, l'll never know."

nout to

telt I, a mchct ls Ttulng

"There are no hard and fast rules on when to take out a pitcher, but
there are some clues to look fo.. for example, if a pitcher is throwins
well, hitters will usually hit foul balls straight back, and there'll be
plenty of foul tips. when batters start making solid contact and hitting
line drives down the foul lines, it usually means they're catching up
with the guy on the mound.

"Another sign to look for is lead-offwalks. lfthe piicher has a big lead
and walks the first hitter on four straight pitches, ifs usually a sign that
he's getting tired."

the ldeat ltlr o, Ptate's
"You should have 9 pitchers and I6 position players available. The
ideal situation is to have a ri8ht handed hitting catcher, left-handed hittin8 catcher, and a catcher who can go behind rhe plate and play other
@sitions. Then you'll need one staner each at first base. second base,
shortstop and third b.se, and two utility infielders to back them up. That
makes 9. Now you can eithe. have 7 outfielders or 6 outfielders and a

thkd utility infielder. That's the way I would select if I was selecting off
ofthe roster. ldeally, l'd have 4 right-hand hitting infielders, 3 left-hand
hittin8 infieldeas and as many switch-hitters as lcan get in there."

52

Setting Ap t tc Aafting Otdq
"Your leadoff guy should have speed and be a man who can get on
base. The number 2 Buy should be a contact hitter, one who can get the
bat on the ball and move the leadoff man to second. I prefer a left-hander who can pull the ball, because ifthe first guy gets on base, the first
baseman has to hold him on and that opens up a hole in the defense.
"The number 3 man should be a contact guy who can hit with power.
Stan Musial and Ted williams were two ofthe best that ever lived. Pick
a player like that.
"The founh guy should be your power hitter. The object is to get him to
bat in the first inning, because if he gets to bat, you've Eot the potential
for two runs. The fifth hitter should be somebody who can ddve in a
couple of people when they're on base. If you can get him to bat in the
first inning and he's Bot power, you'll have a chance to getthree runs.
"The 8uy hitting in the sixth position should be you. best hitter left, either averase-wise or power-wise. Then 7th, and here's where the AL
will differ from the NL, 8th and 9th aren't going to have much power.
You'd like a little speed in the 7th spo! if possible. Especially in the NL.
One of the reasons for that is ifthere are

wo

out and the 7th hitter gets

on base, you're goingto let him run automatically, because you don't
want to 8et your pitcher leading off. So you either want him to 8et in
scoring position for the 8th hifter or picked ofJto end the inning.
"You've Eot the DH in the AL, so your 9th hitter is usually your weakest
hitter, so you don't want him leading offeithe.. He might be your bunter. If you can get power in the 8th spot, that's pretty good. If you can hit
a DH 8th, then you've got a pretty strong lineup."
53

Wlnninc ond t oslng PlaJ,ds
"Sportswriters and announcers spend too much time talking about
'clutch' players, 'winning playert and 'losinS' players. lls lrue that
some players deliver more than other players in crucial situations. lt's
also true that some players play on more winningteams than others. 8ut
you must remembrthat baseball is a team 8ame. That may be a cliche,
but it's also a fact.'

The Sacrtrtue Eunt
"They don't call it a sacrirtce bunt for nothinS. When you use the saclifice bunt, you're giving the opposilion an easy out. Since you only have
three outs each inning, they should be veasured and not Biven away

lightly.

"Decidingwhen to bunt will depend on the averages ofyour hitters. The
bunt can be a good play if you?e bringing the riSht people to the plate
todrive in the baserunners, but there's no Suarantee that a bunt is Sonna
move the runner over and get the run in. The odds are with you if you
bunt at the end ofyour order, but they're a8ainst you if you bunt in the
cente. ofthe order. For example, l'm not going to have my number
three hitter buntthe runners over and give the other team an out jlst so
they can walk my number four man to set up a force or doubleplay."

Bosc Steotine
"The steal has to be successful 75% ofthe time to,do some good, lf it's
only successful 5O%. it ain'twonh a damn. Coleman, \Mlson and those
guys are going to be ruccessful

54

80lo 90% of fie time.

"The guy on the mound will determine who you wili give the green light
to. Ifthe pitcher has a big delivery, you might be willing to take more of
a chance. If you've 8ot one out and your pitcher or number nine hitter
at the plate, you will almosl always try to steal second. The worsr thinS
that could happen is the runnergets picked off and the pitcher makes
the last out, so you start the nex inning with your lead-off hitter."

C',,tofi P!a'/t
"when the right fielder or center fielder is making a throw to the plate,
the first baseman is uslallythe cutoff man. The third baseman normally
handles throws from left field to home. Dependingon who has the better arm, the second baseman or shonstop will be the relay man for balls
hit in the alleys
left-center and right-center
the other player

-

covering second base.'

-with

X|p lllt-anl,n;tn
"l believe the hit-and-run isthe worsl play in baseball. What I prefer is
somerhing I call the tun-and-hit. The difference is that with the hit-andrun, the runner is going to second base at halfspeed, waiting to see if
the batter makes contact with the ball. tfthe batter doesnt connecl, the
runne. gets thro\ r'n out about 90% of the time. The batter is also at a disadvantage because he hasto swing at any pitch, even a bad one, to protect the runner.
"With the run-and-hit, the runner is trying to steal second and isn,t
countinS on the hitter to protect him by making contad. The batter only
swings at the pitch if he likes it
he doesn't have to swing at a bad
pitch out ofthe strike zone.' -

Xh. Piahot
'',oue

"On the pickofi move to first base, you can sometimes cheat a little.
Certain umpkeswill not call balks. The pitche. can twist his shoulder
hal6^,/ay to the clubhouse and they won't call a thing. lt doesn't mean
a balk won't be called, but you can get away with it rnost of the time.
I know of an umpire who has called only one balk in his career. He
told me this, and he said he only called the balk because the pitcher
dropped the ball while on the mound, and that's an automatic balk.
Furthermore, the umpire said he waited until the ball bounced twice

before making the call."

tln $tiaidc

Squeezc

Aay

"The suicide squeeze is the most dangerous play jn baseball-there is
no margin for error and no way to defend against it, ln the suicide
squeeze play, the runneron third breaks for the plate as soon as the
pitcher commits to making the pitch. h the meantime, the batter
squares around to bunt lfexecuted properly, the batter la)6 down a
bunt just before the baserunner gets tothe plate.
"The reason it's called a suicide gqueeze is ifthe batter doesn't connect
and putthe ball in play, or at least foul it off, the runner i5 a dead duck."

thc Fottt-llan mchlng not'fion
'l've

gone with the four-man pitching rotation more often than any
other manager overthe years. The reasoning is very simple
it s easier
to find four good staners than five. why should you give a stan to a fifth
pitcher when you have four who are befter than him? tfyou have four
pitchers who are winning for you and you can get them to the mound
more often, it means more wins for the team."

-

55

SrrDstitlltlors
'A manager is alwals weighing a playe/s defense against hisofrense to
determine if he should be in the lineup. tdon'tthink that the occasional
extra base that could be given up is worth sacrificing much offense for,
however. The players who are your regulars are more than likely pretty
good defensive ballplayers, so on my bench I emphasized hitting. The
bench guys are around for offense. They'll step intothe lineup if some of
your nine guys on the field aren't ploducing offensively."

Sspsrstitl,o'tt
"l'm not superstitiout but I have picked up a few habits through the
years. Forexample, if we were on a winning streak, l'd make out the
lineup with the sarne pen every day. When the streak was stopped, l'd
throw the pen in the garbage and break out a new one."

SETTING UP IOUN
OWN LEAGUE
By RussellSipe, Commissioner of the Computer Caming World Ba.f"ball
leaSue
SettinS up your own league is the most excitingway to play Earl Weaver
Baseball. How you set up your league is determined by your answersto
the following questions: how many 'team owners' do you have? ls your
league strictly a face-to-face league or can Earl manage some or all of
the timel How often do you meet? How long will the league last? And
so forth. Here are some suggestions.

Which ltodc?
lfthe members ofyour league are ofequal ability in hand-eye coordination, you may want to consider a "Play and Manage" league. But most
leagues opt for atrue statistics-based league

thatthe'You Manage"

mode provides.
The abil ity to have Earl rnanage takes some pressure off those owners
who can't attend every play session. Or you could even have an "Earl
Manages" league for people who prcfer to simply play general manager
(this would work for a play-by-mail baseball league where the commissioner runsthe games and mails regular updates to the owners).
Number of Teams: your league should contain an even number of
teams. Consider usingtwo or more divisions if you have more than
six teams.

Numbet o, C,Ifiet
The morc games you play, the morc realistic the final statistics will be.
You should play at least40 games. Eighty games is a good number for a
league with dedicated owners. If you play the equivalent of three games
per week you can run an 80 game league that closely cofiesponds to
the calendar of "real" bareball. Opening day can be early ;n April and
the world Series will usually fall early in October. An advanta8e of the
80 Eame schedule is that it is almost exacdy one half of a "real' baseball
season (162 games). You can double your final stats to see how the
players probably would have done in a 162 game season.

58

teafl

Cons''.,,ctTon

This is the mon critical issue fo. )r'our league. There are three basic ways
to zconstruct' your teamsi a rotisserie league-type draft, a traditional
draft, or a high-low combination.
ln the rotisserie league draft, you set a spending limit for hiring players
(typical ranges are $25 to $260, depending on the economic situation
of the team owners). The collected money goes to pay expenses ofthe
league (trophies for example) and to provide a prize fund forthe victors.
On draftday, players are announced one at a time and owners bid on
them. You cannot spend more for your team than the pre-set limit. For
more details on this type ot dtaflgPJe Rotisseie League Baseball 1987
Ed,?ion (edited by wag8oner & Skylar, Bantam Books).

The members of the Cornputer caminq wo d Baseball League
(CCWB0 prefer a more traditional draft, whereby a draftorder is determined (by lots in the first yearofa league) and owners simply draft players in turn for twenty five rounds.
The third method (which does not requke a draft day where all owners
physically get together) involves usinS a database of major league
teams, paired accordingto their finishes in the year. The team with the
best winning percentage is paired with the team having the worst winning percentage; second best with second worst, and so on. An order of
selection is determined (by drawing lots, or numbers out of a hao and
each owner picks a combination.

59

Ptoteclclt Pi.ks
At the close of the firn season most stat leagues permit team o$r'ners to
protect a number of players for the follo^/in8 season. We recommend
that each owner be allored to protect seven of his tlventy five players.
This number is high enough to give a flavor of continuity to your team
but low enou8h that weaker teams will not be dominated by stronger
teams year in and year out.

Dtstt Ofile"
ln the initial year, you can determine draft order by using loG. ln subsequentseasons, you should have a rule that determines the draft order
based on the prior season's standings. ln the CCwaL we Bive the first
draft pick to the team that had the best win/toss record among teams
that did not make the playoffs. Second pick goes to the non-playoff team
with the second best record, and so forth. After all the non-playoffEams
have been assigned a draft order number, all the playofrteafis arc assigned numbers. The playoff team with the lowest WL record picks first,
and the team with the best WL record pick last.

Ptlzes ,'',d T"ol,hles
Even if you league doesnl provide cash prizes to the victors, you
should at least have a league tophyortophies. aeyond trophies for the
leaSue champions, ),ou mi8ht provide small trophies to the teams that
lead the league in a numbe. of categories (for example: best team batting avelage, most runs, most home runs, most stolen bases, best team
ERA, most strikeouts by pitchers, least eflors, and most shutouts).

Cocd luck, commissioner!
60

COMMISSIOXER'S AND
BASEBALL STAT IIISKS
The Commissionefs Disk and the annual Baseball Stat Disk from Electronic Arts are two products that compliment Earl Weaver Baseball,

Tie Commissioner's Disk is a collection ofadvanced tools that will increase yo!. enjoyment of Earl Weaver Baseball, With it you can draft
teams, schedule your league, make baseball cards, sort stats by position,
and perform other duties as the Commissioner of your own league.

The Baseball Stat Disk comes out at the end ofeach season, h contains
real stats for Major League Baseball players: 25 players per team, selected from all the active Majo. Leaguers who played- Llse these stats to
create your own dream team, to pit any two teams agalnst each other, to
simulate a real season schedule
you
-do anything with r true-to-life
teams and players.

Cofimiitlottct t Dish t o ,;nt

t

rA6laT Aasebot, Stats Dls& Urcrs

1. When you try to use those teams on Ea.l Weaver Easeball 1 .5, you'll
be asked ifthe program can rename your PLAYERS.S file (to
PLAYERS.DAI. This is due to a change in the way rhe Same now
keeps accumulated stats. ln order to use these players with the Commissione/s Disk after ir has been changed to PIAYERS.DAT, you
will need to use the DOS rename command to change it back to
PLAYERS.S. At the DOS prompt, type REN PLAYERS.DAT PLAYERS.S
and press Enter.
The Commissioner's Disk Version 1.5 will work with these modified
teams; the ori8inal Commissioner's Disk will not.
51

2.

lf you want to use the "Combine accumulated statistics tool," you
must update both the action andthe simulation statistics.

Q ron rEM usEns
Speclal Commanlrt
You can load Earl Weaver Baseball with parameters that affect the Same
in certain ways. These are the parameterc:

A
c
D

t
F
L

M

N

62

Co straight to Arcade Came.
U!e cCAgraphics.
Use designated hicer.
Use ECAgraphica,

Go straiShtto the main menu screen.
Play the two defaultteams (the fiBt t^,o ieams on your default stats disk)
over and over agaln in fast statJ mode (Earlpicks the lineups). The accum'rlated stats updac after each game and lhe home tields alEmaG.
Play all the teamt in the fiEt league in one round of round robln fast stats
games. Updates accumulated stils attheend ofeach 8ame.
Play all tlE teamt in the iecond lea8ue (the team, on the rr8fitside of the
team menu) in one mund of mund rcbin fast rtats 8ames. Updates accumulated stats at the end ofeach game.

o

Play all the teams in both leagues in one round of ound rcbin fast-slat!
games. Updates accumulated stat, atthe end ofeach game.

Q

Tum oft sound effects.

S
T
V

Tum offannouncer.

%

Play in staE mode. You select the teams and lineups. Earlwill manage both
Eams. No gnphics arc displayed durlag gameplay.6ames last from 4lo 7

Use Tandy graphics (s12K

Use VC/AJS

of memory required).
ECA emulation mode Game as option E).

To use a parameter, simplytype the letter afterWEAVER. For instance,
to go straight to the Full Program, you would type WEAVER F. You
can also use more than one parameter at a time. To go to a Full Program
with the sound turned offand in CcA mode, you would type
WEAVER F Q C (do rol put commas between the letters).

Fot Con,'nTttTo{',e?'s Dlsh Vse?t Onl!
You can use this pa.ameter orly if you have the Commissioner's Disk.

P

Playa schedulebuilt in theCommisrione/s Diskin stats mode. The prograrn will pompt you for the name of schedu le, starting day, an d n umbe. of
game days to play.






ELECTRONIC ARTS@
Customer Service
P.O.Box7578
San Mateo, CA 94403-7578

3@805

