

                          SHADOW OF THE BEAST III

                               WALK-THROUGH

NOTE - The docs incorrectly state that F1 is used to scroll through
       your weapon inventory.  Use SpaceBar instead.
       You must get all Artifacts AND gold to complete a level.  'Hit'
       below refers to shooting a weapon.

LEVEL 1
-------

Through all 4 levels, you can never go left in the beinnng.  Start 
by going right, hit lever to go up platform, get gold, hit crane wheel
to bring the platform up, get granade and use on the 4 platform guns 
to destroy, get key from 4th platform, go back to 1st platform and 
wait for it to go down, jump left, use key to open door, get gold, go
back right through the platfoms, jump off edge (don't walk down
ladder) go right and shoot piece of meet till it falls off, push it
right till you have it between 1/4 and 1/2 way below the swinging
spikes, pick up key on the way there, use key to open door to your
hungry pal, quickly jump on ladder to avoid gettin trampled. Now it's
safe to ass under spikes, get gold, jump on rocket platform, steer 
left then straighten out to pick up boulder, push boulder left at top
of hill till it falls off ledge, fall of ledge with it, now you have
enough weight to tilt platform far enough to the left to make jump,
go left while shooting spikes, fight leader.

LEVEL 2
-------

Go right, hit lower lever to lower drawbridge, jump on right side of
barrel, roll barrel to the left till in connects with the battering-
ram, get in, go right till you hit the door, shoot door to the help
process along, duck to avoid ball laucher and destroy, walk over bees
then blast the suckers, get gold, go into hole where bees were and 
shoot trap door box on right side, fall through trap door, go right,
push tabe let into left room, jump on, hit lever on left, wait till
water rises, hit lever on right, wait till water falls, go right, get
gold, go up ladder, push table over edge, jump over edge onto table,
now make a running jump off of table till you reach land (should 
require about 3 jumps and half energy, I have found no better way of
doing this), go right, now keep moving to avoid getting picked by the
crane, best technique to kill crane operator is to jump right, shoot
3X, jump left, jump right, shoot 3X, etc till he dies.  Go up ladder
and to the right, kill leader, get artifact, go right to get gold,
go all the way to the left and get gold, go back to ladder and go all
the way down, shoot small door on left to close hole, DON'T SHOOT THE
GREEN GUY OR THE SMALL DOOR ON THE RIGHT, go up ladder to crane 
controls, use crane to get barrel on top right of the conveyor belt,
get in, hit switch on right, push down to close yourself in barrel,
now wait as you get tossed down and pulled over to the second opening,
once to land, get out, go left.  Done

LEVEL 3 
-------

Go right, jump on branches to eagle's nest, waste on them, go right, 
fall off edge, go right, without moving table, shoot left and right
legs off then shoot head that is shooting the fireballs once so it
falls on left side of the seesaw, push seesaw lft so the head is
aligned vertically with the bird in the cage, go up ladder and jump
off landing on right side of seesaw, this should free the bird, to get
on bird, get on top and push button, now fly rght past the ball
slide, go al the wy down the pit, then go right, keep killing the
two birds till one of them is holding a hammer, kill him, grab hammer,
go back up, arrang lvers so 4 balls can be dropped on the level with
the 4 spikes, this will plug the up, now arrange the levers to have
3 balls fall on the level above, walk right, get off bird, watch your
head on the fallingblock, now this part is tricky, use hammer to push
block to the right on top of the balls, always havingtwo bls under-
neath it, rotate the 3 balls till you have pushed the block all the 
way to the right, keep pushing block with hammer till you hit the 
wall, kill leader (standing on the 3rd stone and to the right will
make the monster come towards you) go right and grab flask, go down
to level with spikes, jump in blood pool and fill your cup!

LEVEL 4
-------

Go right, watch for flame thrower on steps, go down the stairs, use
table and book shelf to get hammer in the brick at the top, shoot left
leg of table, push table as far right as it will go, go upstairs, 
shoot big ball twice ONLY then use hammer to get it swinging, when in
full motion, jump on and jumpto the rght on land then shoot ball 
with star as it swings towards the right (for a total of 3 shots), the
ball will break loose and roll down the stairs (if you timed it right)
and launch itself from the table ramp ito another section.  Continue
right, ignore the puzzle (unless you have an hour to kill), go down
first ladder into crane control room, use crane to move the little 
fish in tank 1 into tank 3 (to grab a fish, emerge box into tank, and
as the fish passes through box, pull him up out of the water, to 
release fish, push button), then move round fish in tan 3 to tank 1,
then tank 1 fish into tank 3, then last tank 3 fish into tank 2.  The
remaining fish in tank 2 will not hurt you.  Now exit crane room.
Now safe to go through water.  DON'T JUMP, the spikes on top will 
instantly ill you, go down ladder, fall through pit, push the big
ball to the edge but NOT OVER, using hammer push the furnance to the
left edge, now push ball into furnance, go to top ledge and hit spikes
twice with star, then continue hitting the spikes with the hammer till
it has gathered enough momentum to the left you give it one last hit
with the star, the spikes should break off and fall into the hole at
the bottom.  You must time this perfectly.  Hit furnance switch and
wait.  When the block of ice has melted halfway, jump on it and jump
right, hitting the door switch, then jump back on ice and get the 
crystal, now go right and destroy the other block of ice with hammer
or star, make sure to be under crystal when breaking ice otherwise
the crystal will break from the impact.  Level 4 completed.  Now
you move on to fight Maletoth.  What a wimp, go right and watch him
rise out of the water and blast the son of a bitch.  THE END.
  
 


