
                          Leisure Suit Larry II Solve
                  From the People who Brought you Solves for:
                                Space Quest II
                                      &
                              Manhunter: New York

                       The Deviator and Cobra Commander

     Ok, the first thing you do is go into the garage...Search it all around,
each part of it, until you find the dollar bill.  Get it!  Next, go to the
Quickie-Mart and buy a Lottery Ticket...use any numbers.  Go to the T.V.
Station and give the ticket to the secretary.  She'll tell you what the
winning numbers were.  Remember these numbers, when she asks you for your
numbers you tell her the winning numbers she just told you.  She'll let you
into the green room, sit down on the chair and wait.  THe fag comes out and
takes you onto the dating game.  The only thing I have to tell you about the
dating game is just say whatever you want when the girl asks you questions, it
doesn't make a difference.  The rest just happens.  When you leave, sit down
on the chair again and a girl will come out and bring you to the lottery.  The
lottery scene happens by itself too.  When you're done with the lottery, leave
and go to the Molto Lira (the suit shop).  Buy a swimsuit and the bitch will
change your million dollar bill.  Go to Swabs Drugs and buy some sunscreen.
It's on the left wall.  Go back to the Quickie-Mart and Buy a Grotesque Gulp.
Go back to Eve's House and Search the Trash.  The first time, it'll ask you
why you wanna do it, just hit search trash again and you'll find a passport.
Go to the Barber Shop and sit in the chair to get a haircut. Go to the Music
Shop (its now open) and talk to the girl.  You should get an Onklunk.  Then go
to the screen directly to the right of the barber shop, you'll find the dock.
As long as you have a passport and ticket just show the man the ticket and
you're all set.

     Now you should same the game.  First thing to do is go into your room,
by going to the right.  Get the fruit from the nightstand.  Go into the next
room and you'll meet Momma.  If you have a saved game right here, I think
you'll get a laugh out of what happens if you go near Momma.  What you have to
do is leave her room and your room, then go back in, and wait til she's not on
the bed.  Make sure the game is saved!!!  Momma has a tendency to come back as
you search her room.  Open the nightstand, get the sewing kit, close the
nightstand, and get the FUCK out of there.  You should save your game here,
just save over the one before you got the sewing kit.  Find the barber shop
(Don't worry, there's 5 barber shops in this game) and sit in the chair.  Go
to the bar and get the spinach dip at the left of the bar.  Go to your room
and change into your swimsuit.  Go to the pool and put sunscreen on.  Go into
the water and DIVE.  Get the bikini top.  Climb up the ladder and walk over to
the lounge chair.  Put more sunscreen on and lie down.  When this bitch comes
over, let her leave!  She's trouble (but a cool death scene).  Save the game
here because Mama might get you later. After she's gone for a while, leave the
pool and go back to your room and change into your leisure suit.  Go to the
bridge. Go to what looks like a blue stick on the control panel right behind
the captain.  Pull switch.  Now, go to the lifeboats and jump into the
lifeboat. Now, at the screen where it shows the whole ship and all the
lifeboats being lowered, as soon as you start drifting away, type WEAR WIG
and throw the spinach dip overboard.  That's it until you reach the island.

        When you are on the beach, go down.  This is a bitch!!! (I hope you
have other hobbies...now would be a good time to do them while you wait).
In the restaurant, after you get a seat, get the knife from the buffet table
and leave.  Now in the hotel room, get the soap and matches.  Leave the
maid alone (Unless you want to see another cool death scene).  Now leave the
room. Oh yeah, as you're walking through the jungle, wait until you're near
the pink flowers along the center road, and type GET FLOWERS.  If it keeps
saying "You're not close enough" keep trying.  You'll get them.  In the
Barber Shop, sit down in the chair.  When you get back to the beach, go left,
go to between the rocks on the left side, and type GET BIKINI BOTTOM. Then go
right and down again (it is a little faster this time but it is still HELL!)
Go back down.  In the restaurant, just leave.  In the hotel room, go into the
dressing area behind the bathrrom and change into the bikini.  Type PUT MONEY
IN BIKINI TOP.  Now leave.  In the barber shop, sit down in the chair again.
You now look like a girl(???).  Back at the beach, go to the right. Just go
right by the KGB agents.  Now, these cliffs aren't as bad as they look. Just
get by them and you're at the airport.  At the very end of the cliffs, as it's
giving you the big thing how you've escaped the KGB etc...try to type
constantly, as soon as you can, type CHANGE CLOTHES.

        Approach the KGB flower children, but don't get too close or you will
eat it. Type GIVE FLOWERS. Then, enter the airport. At the airport, first go
to the left and get a haircut. (To get bonus points, type LOOK WOMAN before
you do that).  Now, go back to the ticket lines and go to the right.  Show the
passport to the man and he'll let you pass.  Go right by the guard and to the
suitcase line.  Wait for the green cammo suitcase and get suitcase.  After the
bomb goes off, go over to the line and buy a ticket.  Go back to the guy you
showed your passport to and show him the ticket...go by the the guard again
and go to the next screen. Order some food.  Don't eat it, just get the bobby
pin.  Go to the machines and get the parachute from the FLIGHT INSURANCE
machine.  Just type BUY INSURANCE. Get on the ramp.  At the waiting room, get
the pamphlet off the counter and give the man the ticket.

        On the plane, as soon as you sit down, give the pamphlet to the man
next to you. Take the airsick bag.  Go to the back of the plane and wear the
parachute.  Open the emergency door with the bobby pin by typing USE PIN.  The
emegency door is on the opposite side of the bathrooms. You will know you are
next to it when one of the bathroom doors open, a man gets out, and another
one goes in.  Then type TURN HANDLE. OPEN DOOR. You will be sucked out of the
plane. When it shows the scene where you're falling through the sky, PULL
RIPCORD.  When you find yourself in the tree, CUT ROPE.

        On this next screen, pick up the stick and crawl under the bush with
the bees.  On the next screen, wait til the Annaconda comes after you and HOLD
STICK.  On this screen, follow the bright patches near the bottom of the
screen to avoid the quicksand.  Depending on your colors, this may be hard to
find, but you'll make it. They should be bright orange.  On this next screen,
find the right vine and JUMP.  When you get onto the vine, type JUMP again. 
Then JUMP and JUMP again. This is a tricky part which you must do fast.
Remember, hitting space bar gives you the last line you typed so use that. A
cool death scene: walk into the river and the walk out.  Find the vine you can
take and GET VINE...move either to the right or up, it doesn't matter.  Now
sit back and watch the cartoon for the next five minutes or so.  When you get
to the chasm, go back down to the village, back to the screen where the fire
was, and get ashes.  Go back to the tip of the chasm and throw vine. If you're
close enough you can swing on the vine across the chasm.  Keep going until you
get to the bottom of the glacier.  Go to the foot of the steps made of ice and
type THROW ASHES.  Go up to the top of the mountain where the elevator is.  Go
to the edge of the chasm, I always use the part where it widens into a hole
near where the steam comes out.  Type PUT BAG INSIDE TONIC BOTTLE.  That
worked for me.  It's very sensitive here to the exact wording. Type LIGHT BAG
and DROP BOTTLE IN HOLE.  It'll blow the door open.  Go into the elevator and
that's it.  It takes over from here.  Get ready for a good 15-20 minute
cartoon.

For Latest and Greatest Warez!!!


      H.M.S. Bounty BBS
      (215) 873-7287 for 9600/19.2
      (215) 873-8620 for 2400

      Sysop:  Fletcher Christian/ESI
