CEDRIC MANUAL

System Requirements
Amiga 500 - 4000 with at least 1 MB RAM. Up to 3 additional disk drives
are supported.
If your Amiga has at least 2 MB RAM, of which at least 1 MB is Chip-RAM,
then CEDRIC can also be installed to a hard disk if available. If you
happen to own a CD-ROM drive then you can play the CD version directly
from CD.

CD-ROM Version
Boot up your Amiga using Workbench. Place the CEDRIC CD in your CD drive
and using a double click, open the diskette icon which will now have
appeared. You can start CEDRIC by performing a double click on the large
CEDRIC icon in the disk drive window.

Floppy Disk Version
Start the game from disk
Insert CEDRIC disk 1 into the built-in disk drive and turn on your
computer. The game will now load automatically.

Hard Disk Installation
CEDRIC will occupy approximately 5 MB of disk space. If you don't happen
to have this much free space on your drive, then you will have to delete
some non-essential files to create more room. If you can't do this, then
the installation won't be possible. CEDRIC will only load automatically
if you already have Amiga Workbench loaded on your hard disk. Boot your
Amiga from the hard disk (If you've configured your Amiga such that
Workbench doesn't load, enter the command "LOADWB" in the CLI window),
insert CEDRIC disk 1 into the drive of your choice and open the diskette
icon with a double click. In the diskette window that will now have
appeared, use a double mouse click to select the icon "HD-Installation
English".
Within the installation program you can confirm all actions by clicking
on the "Continue" button. Once you have clicked on the "Continue" button
in the installation program, select the directory in which the CEDRIC
drawer is to be located. All files which belong to the game will then be
copied to this drawer. Now follow all of the on-screen instructions that
appear for changing the diskettes etc. After a successful installation
the wonderful large CEDRIC icon will now be seen in the newly created
drawer. All you have to do now is clicking on this icon to start the 
game.
(Where we refer to "joystick" in the following, then of course the same
movements are valid for the joypad of the CD32 console. "Fire button" on
the joystick translates to the red button on the joypad.)

The Controls
* Joystick left/right: This moves CEDRIC in the corresponding direction
* Joystick up:         This leaves our character jumping in the air. The
                       longer you hold the stick in this direction, the
                       higher CEDRIC will jump. (Of course there is a
                       limit to the height he can jump)
* Joystick down:       This makes CEDRIC duck. (This is handy in helping
                       CEDRIC to avoid certain flying creatures)
* Fire button:         This is used for self-defence.
If the fire button is depressed briefly then CEDRIC (also while jumping)
will carry out a punch. If you hold the button down a little longer,
CEDRIC goes into defensive mode, in which, as long as you hold the 
button depressed while moving the joystick, he can strike out in
virtually all directions. By moving the stick down or up CEDRIC will
duck or stand up again.
If you press the keyboard SPACE bar (or if you have a joystick with two
separate fire buttons, press the second button) then you can no longer
control CEDRIC directly, instead you find yourself in the status panel
at the bottom of the screen. Here, by using the joystick movements and
pressing the fire button, you can select objects and actions. The
currently active icon is highlit in colour while the inactive icons
remain grey. This mode is appropriate most of all when you wish to use
one of the numerous objects scattered about the levels, or combine one
object with another. Such objects will become obvious when CEDRIC
passes by and then all of a sudden begins to "think". A thought bubble
will appear above CEDRIC's head (complete with cogs going wound in his
brain) and in addition there will be a line of text explanation in the
status panel. If you want to do something with such an object, then you
can switch into Object Mode using the SPACE bar which then gives you
various possibilities to consider.
Above left in the status panel there is a crystal ball in which the
currently active object is represented by a small icon. All object
actions relate JUST TO THIS OBJECT. If the crystal ball is empty, then
you don't have any object selected, or there's no object within range.
On the right hand side of the status panel there is a group of five
icons which have the following functions:
* Eye (top left):             Look at object/investigate object
* Hand (top right):           Pick up object
* Joystick (centre):          Switch back into running mode. This action
                              can also be carried out by a further press
                              on the space bar
* Mouth (right):              Speak to people (also to objects!)
* Hand with spanner (bottom): Use an object

In the course of the game you will most probably find yourself in a
situation where you would like to combine the use of two objects with
one another. In this case you must follow this procedure (You can only
combine an object from the inventory with one that is directly in front
of CEDRIC. It's not possible to combine the use of two objects from the
inventory): Position CEDRIC in front of the "stationary" object, so that
he begins to think. Switch the status paneland nominate the desired
inventory object as active and then select the "Use" (spanner) icon.
Voilà!
The status panel also carries some additional valuable information for
playing the game.
There is a bar bottom left which shows the current life energy of our
hero. At the beginning this bar is still in the green zone, which
signifies "full energy". Every collision with a nasty enemy being will
contribute to a loss of energy. If the bar is showing red and has shrunk
to a fraction of its original size, then this is the time to get 
refreshed by collecting some of the many energy pills which are spread
throughout the levels. If you don't do this then you're in danger of
losing a life. The remaining lives are displayed to the right. Of course
if you don't have any lives remaining then you'll receive the dreaded
GAME OVER epitaph.
Along with the previously mentioned energy pills, there are some extra
lives and heaps of bonus symbols and coins hidden in the levels. Of 
course these are extremely useful for our hero to collect.
There is a display of the number of collected bonus symbols to the right
of the remaining lives indicator. If you collect more than 99 of these
symbols then you are rewarded with a free extra life!
The number of coins collected is also displayed right alongside. It is
highly advantageous to collect a decent stock of these, you'll be
needing them in the course of the game!
