Speedball 2 Playguide, by the Bitmap Brothers


General Advice
This advice is applicable to League, Cup and Knockout matches.

Star Players
In division 2, buy the best Star Forward and concentrate on getting the ball to him.
Make sure he has a high speed rating. Then buy the best Mid-fielder and Goalie.

Gym
Buy the following attributes in the following categories...

Team
Attack, Power, Speed. Then Defence, Stamina, Aggresion and Intelligence.

Groups
Defenders:  throwing and attack
Mid-Field: Throwing, Defence and Attack
Attack: Defence, Stamina, Speed and Intelligence

Individual Players
Goalie: Intelligence, Attack, Defence, Throwing.
Centre Forward: Intelligence, Speed, Stamina
(As the cemtre forward will always get into a lot of tackles.)


Matches

Cup
This is very difficult and only for the seasoned player. Money is crucial as you may be up against
Division one teams by the third round and will have to get your statistics somewhere near
theirs to have a chance of winning.


League Game
It is not only whether you beat the teams in division two or one, but how many goals
you beat them by as points in the league tables and ultimately your position in the League,
is defined by how many points you score during the match.

Knockout
Money is crucial, therefore collect as much as possible each match, as you will have to
increase your attributes to the level of your opponents. Their attributes increase by
about ten points overall, from team to team.

Manager
A very different game to the normal match. Although the same as normal league match,
the attributes to buy for your team are very different. Intelligence is very important,
then Attack and Power. Star Players are not necessary in Division two, although crucial
to getting to the top of the division. It is better to be drawn against the top teams
in the first couple of weeks of Division two. Save your money against these teams as
spending it is a waste of time, as they will probably injure most of your players. Then
spend it all when you are up against the weaker teams.



Playing the Match


Go For Score Multiplier
This will multiply the points awarded for scoring goals, injuring players, and any bonus
points which you score. Be careful when playing against teams of high intelligence as
they will take the ball from you and use the multiplier themsleves.



Go for Lethal Bounce
Again, as above, be carefull as they will tackle and use the ball against you. Is most
effective when playfied is multiplied, as it will travel through more players.

Go for Stars
When on the way towards the goal, go for stars. When a match is drawn with little time
left go for stars as they are easier than scoring goals but will still win you the match.

Go for Money
It is really important in all matches to collect all money which appears on the pitch.
There is only a certain amount which appears each match so be aware of when it stops.


Go for Bounce Domes
As with the stars, in a draw situation, go for these.

Goalie
When under computer control the goalie will always block the ball, therefore don't move
the goalie until he is the nearest man to the ball.

Swerve
Use swerve shots against the opponents goalie as this confuses them.

Tokens
The best tokens to go for are:

Freeze Team
Shield
Transport Ball
Boost Stats

Don't go for the manic token unless you are very good and in possesion of the ball.
When the ball is electrified and the opposition has it, go for the Grab ball token, if available. 
