KGB/CONSPIRACY - Cryo/Virgin Games Updated Walk through by Lord Marcus Dracon (m
arhar@wr.com.au)

      CHAPTER 1
   1. Wait in office for call from Volvov. Go through office door into hall. Ent
er 2nd door from left. Get assignment from Volvov. Leave hall by going through r
ightmost door.
   2. Go to Golitsin's office. Show ID to guard. Tell guard to notify you if any
one comes. Find matches and match box in desk. Find batteries in transistor radi
o on table. Inspect file drawer - locked. Ask guard for key to drawer. Open draw
er with key. Get article and cassette player. Read article and drop it. Put batt
eries in cassette player. Look out window & notice a man looking at you. Wait un
til guard notifies you of Golitsin's sister's arrival. Question her. Tell her to
 sit and be nice to her. Tell her to leave and she will give a tape to you. Put 
tape in cassette player. Give key back to guard. Go back to Department P. Tell V
olvov that orders were obeyed; that you interviewed Golitsin's sister. 
      Give cassette to Volvov. It seemed advisable to listen to cassette. Codena
me is Hollywood. Go to your office and wait.
   3. Get assignment from Galushkin to investigate Hollywood at the Enthusiastic
 Progress Club (EPC). Go to Uncle Vanya's. Go to your bedroom. Get clothes from 
closet. Wear clothes. Get money from drawer.
   4. Go to Kursk Street. Enter bar and speak with bartender and Romeo but do no
t discuss Hollywood or buyer 2. Find out that bar closes at 10:30pm. Get beer gl
asses from the bar (for what?).
   5. Leave bar. Go around the corner to the left. Enter the back room of the ba
r; go upstairs. Light a match and get a clipboard from the cabinet. Go downstair
s. Go through door near stairs. Go 4 lefts to apartment door.
   6. Enter apartments and speak with ladies in Apartment 7. Opinion poll about 
opposite sex. Go in apartment 7. Not really a poll. Investigating murders. Need 
their help. Ask about neighbours. Talk to both women, be sure to get them to tel
l about Belussov in Lefortovo.
   7. Go to apartment 5 and speak with Belussov about Lefortovo. He tells about 
Ryumin in apartment 4 spending 5 years on Wrangel Island.
   8. Go to apartment 4 and speak with Ryumin about Wrangel Island. He tells abo
ut Systenko in apartment 6 and his meat market.
   9. After leaving apartment 4, hear two thugs discussing their mugging strateg
y as they walk up the stairs to the EPC.
  10. Go upstairs and drop the clipboard in the hall and enter the EPC. Pay $30.
00 to stay. Speak with the people there and buy a video tape for $5.00. Go into 
the bathroom and find $200.00 cash in the trash; put it back. Leave bathroom and
 then enter the bathroom again to find cocaine in the trash. Flush coke and pee.
  11. Speak with thugs standing by the right wall in EPC. They invite you to par
ty with them and do so.
  12. Fight Lyonka outside and kill him. Search him and find a lock pick tool. M
ove his body to the trash can in the next right screen.
  13. Go to the door next to the meat market and open it using the lock pick too
ls. Go through the door to the meat market. Light a match and look at the counte
r. Move the switch to turn ON the diode. Enter the freezer, see the bodies and t
hrow up. Come out, light another match, and turn the diode OFF.

      For extra:
  14. Go to the bar and wait until 10:30; get kicked out and go around the corne
r and enter the bar from the back. The bartender confronts me and I kill him. Se
arch him and find a key (to bar back door).
  15. Go to apartment 6 and speak with Systenko and ask about his meat market. H
e lets you in and tells about how he was being blackmailed. He tells about Chevc
henkova in apartment 8 and her cats and the bad guys that use her apartment.
  16. Go to hall and watch Chevchenkova leave to feed cats. Use lock pick tools 
to enter apartment 8. Look in drawer and find white paper and picture of some KG
B. Then enter door on right. Discover assurance portfolio with pictures of your 
parent's car in the TV. Try the video tape that you bought in the EPC in the VCR
 (boring movie). Find other video tapes in the drawer and try them in the VCR (s
nuff movie). Find the Polaroid camera.
  17. Eventually get caught by 4 guys and wind up in a room where they threaten 
you. Find out that one of them is Hollywood and Romeo tells that he has seen you
 tonight.
  18. Rita comes in to the room; don't tell her anything. Mickey Duck comes in a
nd tries to kill Rita. Try to protect her. Verto lets her out. Mickey Duck and y
ou talk but he doesn't trust you. Listen at the door and hear that Rita wants co
caine. Verto says that he doesn't have it.
  19. Find the bug on the table, destroy it, and show it to Mickey Duck. Look at
 the alarm above the door and Mickey wants to hot wire it to cause a distraction
. Say it must be for the meat locker and to go ahead.
  20. Verto gets excited and leaves. Call Rita, help Rita, say you will get coke
 for Rita. When Rita lets you out of room, attack Rita. Take all the stuff. Hide
 behind door. Fight Verto when he comes in. Take his stuff. Find Polaroid camera
. Find white and blue papers. Use camera on blue & white papers, keep photos. Vi
ew videos, if not already seen. Return blue & white papers and videos. Leave apa
rtment.
  21. See codes on photos of papers (should say Leningrad Aug 16 3pm Ladoga Park
). Return to Dept. P. Answer Volvov's questions. Get new assignment from Galushk
in. Say you will to Leningrad, Ladoga Park, Aug 16 @ 3;00 PM. Get equipment from
 Guzenko.

      CHAPTER 2
  22. Look at phone in hotel room. Read mission instructions and personnel files
. Go to bathroom, but answer phone when it rings. Say no & get another phone num
ber (37452) from caller. Enter bathroom. Look above mirror, take paper. Look at 
paper & decode message using Boris & 37452
  23. Boris
      3abcde
      7fghij
      4klmno
      5pqrst
      2uvwxy
  24. IF YOU WANT TO LIVE, SWITCH YOUR ROOM LIGHT ON AND OFF THREE TIMES IN SUCC
ESSION THEN DIAL NUMBER YOU HEAR ON THE PHONE
  25. Go to your bedroom. Switch light off & on 3 times. Use phone; call 37452. 
Leave everything in room except rubles & ID. Go to room across hall & look at ph
one # 37493. Go to dept 7. Show ID to desk guard. Say that you are expected in D
ept 7 by Kusnetsov. Give pass to guards. Go to Kusnetsov's office & listen to hi
m. Go to Agabekov's office & wait till he is ready to talk. Smell cigar odour. L
ook at both phones. Ask questions of Agabekov. Leave Agabekov's office & go to D
robnitsa's office. Ask him questions & look at phones. Leave his office & go to 
Chapkin's office. Look at phones. Call Agabekov & get him to meet you outside in
 3 minutes (say you are Yakovlev). Go to Agabekov's office & look in trash can a
t cigar (take it).
  26. Go back to your hotel room. Take headphones, listening device, microphone,
 & camera. Go to Ladoga Park before 3:00 PM. Go to left and hide behind tree. Pu
t microphone on bench, set listening device to record. Wait till surly man arriv
es at 2:55pm. Wait till Romeo appears at 3:05pm. Wait till both men leave. Take 
microphone.
  27. Go to right, go to metro station. Watch surly man meet Chapkin. Follow sur
ly man (Romeo's contact) to warehouse. Use camera to watch him enter key pad cod
e (14C9A). Enter bar, go through door on left. Go upstairs. Unlock roof window. 
Go downstairs. Go through door on left into bathroom. Unlock window. Go out wind
ow. Go through side street between buildings to front of warehouse. Unlock keypa
d (14C9A). Enter warehouse. Take suitcase from desk. Open suitcase & see video t
apes. Put tapes back in suitcase. Put suitcase on desk. Go through door into nex
t room. Go through door on left into office. Put microphone on desk. Leave offic
e & hide behind boxes. Put recorder on boxes. Wait until guys come and enter off
ice. Wait till door bell rings and 3rd guy goes into office. Wait till 3rd guy c
omes out of office & leaves - he is Obukov.
  28. Climb ladder. Unlock roof window, exit through window. Go into window on n
ext roof. Go downstairs and then into bathroom. Exit through window and then bet
ween buildings to front of warehouse. See Obukov enter subway. Enter subway and 
follow Obukov to Hotel Syevyernaya Zvyezda.
  29. Enter hotel and watch Obukov enter cocktail bar. Enter bar and wait. Watch
 Agabekov meet Obukov. Wait till they leave. Go to lobby & watch Agabekov & Obuk
ov. Wait till both leave. Exit hotel. Go to warehouse before 6:30pm. Go to back 
of warehouse via right side of screen. Enter bathroom window. Go through bathroo
m door. Go upstairs, through roof window, down roof window, down ladder, and hid
e behind boxes again. Wait until Savchenko makes call to say day after tomorrow 
morning is OK. Take listening device. Leave warehouse at 7:02pm. Listen to all t
ape recordings. Go back to your hotel. Go to left (hotel alley). Show cut-throat
 your ID. Tell about Agabekov's cigar. Mechilaiev & Savchenko are handling the t
apes. Yakuchev is contact. Transport is Viktor Matsnev, will exchange tapes for 
drugs. Mr. X is Agabekov. Ask questions about NEW BIRTH & Matsnev. Go to front o
f your hotel. Go in hotel. Go upstairs. Go to room across the hall from your roo
m. Wait for Savinkov. Search killer, take hat & coat & photo. Use phone, call nu
mber on killer's hand. Answer "yes", "come up", "come up". Move body to bathroom
. Wear hat & coat. Go to bedroom. Turn off light. Wait for knock & say come in. 
Explain everything to Savinkov. Ask Savinkov questions. Listen to killer.
  30. Dispose of body: Put hat & coat on body. Move body to room across hall. Tu
rn on light and look at bed. Take bottle and use on body. Look out window and se
e cigarette glow below. Go outside hotel. Go to alley on left. Give bottle to bu
ms. Go to hotel lobby. Tell receptionist about noise. Look at desk and take whee
lchair. Go to alley and drop wheelchair. Go to hotel room across hall from yours
. Move body out window. Go to alley. Take wheelchair. Use wheelchair on body. Mo
ve body to canal street (to left). Move body into canal. Get back to room (withi
n 1 hour).
  31. Wait for Savinkov, get instructions. vGo to Hotel S. Z. Go into lobby. Go 
into bar. Talk to prostitute on right of screen (Natasha). Ask about room 304. A
nother prostitute arrives (Tamara). Talk to Tamara. Ask what room she uses. Talk
 to Carla Wallace (American lady in booth on right of screen). Get info and $150
.00 from her. Go to bar. Talk to Tamara. Pay $50.00 and go to room 304. Ask Tama
ra about other room she uses and pay $50.00 for info (Room 416). Go to 4th floor
. Tell House lady room 416; pay her $10.00. Look at mirror (2-way). Look at tabl
e; take ashtray. Use ashtray on mirror. Go through mirror to room 418. Look at t
able; take photo of Chapkin and Kusnetsov. Go to 1st floor. Go to bar. Talk to G
reenburg (man in booth on middle left of screen). Tell that Savinkov is controll
er. Tell that you went to Hammer & Sickle Street today. Never hear of Protopopov
. Get more info and maybe money too.
  32. Return to your room in Hotel G. Stop recorder. Set recorder to Voice-Activ
ated. Remove headphones from recorder. Use bed and sleep.
  33. Go to bathroom when Chapkin wakes you up. Say that you are ready to TALK t
o him. When recorder starts to distract him, attack him. Look at body; take gun 
and syringe. Use syringe on him and ask questions. Wait for Savinkov and tell al
l. Give gun to Savinkov.
  34. Sleep until 10:15am.
  35. Go to hotel alley and wait for bum to appear. Talk to bum and ask for his 
paper. Give new camera to bum for newspaper. Look at newspaper. Go to front of H
otel G and wait until phone rings. Answer phone, identify yourself, and talk to 
cut-throat. Say that you don't know about NEW BIRTH. Say that Matsnev is a boat.
  36. Go to Ladoga Park before noon. Wait for Greenburg. Talk to Greenburg. Say 
that you don't know about Protopopov. Go to dock.

      CHAPTER 3
  37. Dive into water. Go up onto boat. Hide behind fish boxes in front part of 
boat. After mechanic leaves, go down hatch to radio room. Go through door on lef
t to rest room. Look at drawer under the bed; take all that stuff (bottle & belt
). Go to radio room. Go up to deck before Savinkov arrives. Throw bottle into wa
ter on left side of ship. When mechanic jumps overboard, go to rear of ship. Go 
down hatch to engine room. Hide in closet. Wait until engine wakes you up. Look 
at engine. Use belt on engine. Hide in closet. Wait until midnight. When mechani
c goes up to deck, go up to deck. Watch transaction at front of ship; casket and
 2 suitcases are loaded. After everyone goes below deck; go to front of ship. Go
 down hatch into radio room. Look at box and suitcases (be sure to leave them th
ere). Listen at door of rest room. Go up on deck before Savinkov enters radio ro
om. Hide behind fish boxes on front of ship. Wait until 5:00am. Watch meeting wi
th another ship. Wait until dawn; go to rear of ship and hide behind fish boxes.
 Wait and then go into water when you get near the dock.

      CHAPTER 4
  38. Go to Dept 7. Wait outside until 9:15am & watch as Agabekov leaves in a ca
r. Go; hail taxi and follow Agabekov. Go into building on Progress of Mankind St
reet. Tell guards that you are KGB. Show ID. Talk to Litvinov; routine questioni
ng, just the facts. Ask about what was to be done to Protopopov; no time for dit
hering. Leave Litvinov's office. Go through farthest room (3) on right wall. Go 
through door on right. Wait in green room & answer anything until the professor 
lets you out. Go through door on right.
  39. Question Professor; ask about work, say that Agabekov is not my colleague.
 When professor leaves the room, press the button on the table to trap him in th
e green room. Wait until he says he will tell you anything. Talk to microphone o
n table; ask about his work. Ask about his patients. Ask about the big cabinet. 
Ask about nurse Saneyeva. Ask about nurse Savinkov.
  40. Go into big cabinet & listen to dad. Push button table to open door. Go th
rough door to green room. Go through left door to room 3. Talk to patient; say '
saliva' & listen to his response. Leave building onto street.
  41. Go to Hotel G.; get tip from bum. Go to Gorki Street. Enter door. Ask Gree
nburg what happened. Ask about 'Memory's Bible'. Ask about 'Motherland'. Go to G
reat Patriotic War Street. Enter art Gallery. Tell manageress that you are just 
looking around. Wait until she says that it is time to close. When she goes to b
ack room, hide in the closet. Wait until she leaves gallery. Turn off lights usi
ng wall switch. Go to back of gallery. Take letter opener from desk. Take sword 
from statue. Use letter opener on statue. Enter the opened panel. Talk to the ma
n there.
  42. Don't kill Protopopov when Volvov tells you to. Thank your uncle for comin
g. When Volvov is down, take gun from floor. Use gun on Volvov before he shoots 
you. Listen to Protopopov.

      The End.
