
                          K I N G ' S   Q U E S T  IV

                          (The Perils Of Rosella)

                 Typed by  T H E   T W I N S  of   TRILOGY 


                         SPREAD BY MIDNIGHT MANIAC

 This is the legend of King's Quest...

 Once, in a kingdom called Daventry, there lived a King named Edward.
Daventry was a very old kingdom, and it had its share of kings, both
good and bad, over the thousands of years. King Edward was a very good
King, but he was also very old, and without children. Disorder ruled
the land since the loss of the Three Great Treasures. King Edward
feared that disorder might degenerate further once he died. Besides, he
knew (as well did his people) that without an heir to the throne the
kingdom would be in dire straits indeed. Thus, King Edward sent for his
favorite knight, Sir Graham.

You are the bravest and most trustworthy of my knights, quick of wit
and stout of heart. I have chosen you to succeed me as king, but first
you must prove yourself worthy of my crown. Far beyond the walls of
this castle lie shrouded the Three Great Treasures of Daventry, stolen
years ago by stealth and sorcery. This kingdom will not be restored to
its former glory and prosperity until these great treasures are
returned to their rightful hearth. Succeed in this, my request, and the
crown shall become yours upon my death. Fail, and ouronce beautiful
kingdom will fall to the hands of evil forces who will use the powerful
magic of the Three Great Treasures against us.


            "May you return victorious, Sir Graham!"

 Thus Sir Graham ventured where most humankind dared not tread, and
returned home victorious with the cherished Treasures of Daventry, as
is chronicled in the tale Quest For The Crown.

 Now Graham ruled over the land, with the aid of the Magic Mirror and
the other Great Treasures of Daventry. The people of Daventry prospered
greatly under the reign of the kindly monarch. But peace and prosperity
can become quite dull for valiant Kings. Not more than a week after the
third anniversary of his appointment to the throne (on the eve of King
Edward's death) did King Graham begin to feel the pangs of loneliness.

Fate would have it that Graham was standing next to the Magic Mirror as
he pondered his plight. As he glanced toward the Mirror, he noticed
that the glass had grow inexplicably cloudy.

As the mist cleared, Graham beheld the image of the most beautiful
maiden he had ever seen. She stood glancing from a window, motionless
except for a stray breeze that stirred her hair. A tear fell from one
eye, and sparkled on her cheek like a diamond on velvet.

"See! How the tears run down her face. Oh, that I were the glove upon
the hand that could brush away such sorrow!" exclaimed Graham.

The King's heart was suddenly intoxicated with longing for this maiden
--indeed this was the woman who must be his Queen.

"Oh Mirror wise," said Graham, "I have vowed to make this maiden my
bride. Where may I find her?"

The Mirror clouded once more, and a voice spoke forth. "This is the
maiden Valanice. She is from the kingdom of Kolyma, and is known for
her goodness no less than her beauty. The jealous crone Hagatha whisked
Valanice away to an enchanted land, and imprisoned her in a quartz
tower guarded by ferocious beast. To rescue Valanice, you must travel
to the kingdom of Kolyma, where you may search for the keys which
unlock the three doors to the enchanted land..."

As the tale is told, King Graham did indeed find the  three magic keys,
and faced the battles that led to the safe rescue of the beautiful
maiden Valanice. The full account of King Graham's search for his bride
is chronicled in the tale Romancing the Throne.

 King Graham married the beautiful girl he had rescued, and two years
later the young Queen Valanice gave birth to twins, a boy and a girl.
Alexander bore a striking resemblance to his father, and likewise
Rosella to her mother. The family lived a very happy and peaceful
life...at least for awhile.

But from deep within the forests came rumblings of a bloody trail
towards the land of Daventry. Sightings of dragons had been rare in
these tranquil times, and never before in the kingdom of Daventry had
one witnessed such a beast as the terrible three-headed dragon. As the
years crept by the notoriety of the beast grew as great as the
destruction it wrought. Soon the whole population of Daventry tremored
with the news of the dragon's approach, and each homestead dwelt in
terror.

 Meanwhile, in a land far away, lived the malevolent wizard Manannan.
Manannan kept a watchful eye upon the kingdoms of the world. With a
sardonic grin he watched as the three-headed dragon rampaged its way
towards Daventry. Manannan's hatred of mankind had intensified with his
great age, and his coal-black eyes burned a strange reflection upon the
glass of the crystal as he mirthfully watched another human swallowed
whole by the vicious beast.

Preferring his solitude, the powerful Manannan was only allowed to be
observed by one servant-boy, who maintained his house and performed all
of his menial chores. Of course, Manannan could have conjured up
spirits to do hid dirty work, but he much preferred to see the toil and
strain of a young mortal suffering under his thrall.

Most would call it depravity, but it was fear that fueled the flames of
Manannan's hatred of humanity, a fear instilled by a vision from his
prophetic crystal ball. For within its walls of quartz had Manannan
seen his own hideous destruction at the hands of a conquering hero.

 Time has wrought many changes, and with it  much sorrow. The kingdom
of Daventry was ravaged by the deplorable dragon, and the young
Princess Rosella was abducted. The entire kingdom was overcome by the
brutal onslaught of the beast, and though forewarned, found themselves
helpless to defend against its supernatural strength. Much weeping and
wailing was heard throughout the land. Even with its power of prophecy,
the Magic Mirror could provide no answers, not even a clue, for some
bearer of black magic had cast a cloud of darkness upon its face...

And the wizard watched with eyes of venom...!

The entire tale of Rosella's rescue, the wizards downfall, and the
restoration of the royal family are chronicled in the saga To Heir is
Human.

According to legend, shortly after Rosella's rescue King Graham decided
it was time to pass on his adventurer's cap. Gathering in his wife and
two children, the King offered a grateful smile upwards, for each
member of his family had given him great pride. Gazing down at his
children, he couldn't help but see the glint of spirited valorin their
eyes. Knowing the future of his kingdom would rest soundly in the hands
of its future heir, he slowly lifted his hands to display the infamous
adventurer's cap.

And now the commencement of the noblest adventure of all....



                         AN OVERVIEW

 A Sierra 3-D Animated Adventure Game, simply stated, is an interactive
movie where you become the main character. In this game, the main
character is Princess Rosella, daughter of the dying King Graham.

Each 3-D Animated Adventure Game has a main goal, and yours in the
King's Quest IV is to find the magic talisman (to save Genesta, the
good fairy) and the charmed fruit (to save your father), both hidden in
a strange country. You will need to move swiftly and use your
ingenuity, for you have but one day to complete your quest. Fail, and
your loved ones will die, and you will be stranded in a strange land
for the rest of your life.

		TIPS FOR NEW ADVENTURE PLAYERS 

Note: If you have played an Animated Adventure before, this section can
be skipped.

1.HOW TO MOVE AROUND
Basic instructions on how to interactwith this game are included on the
reference card enclosed. For those who are not sure of what to do,
there is a WALK THRU included at the end of this manual.

2.STAY OUT OF DANGER
Due to the dangerous nature of this adventure game, you will want to
save your game often. Type SAVE GAME after you have made important
progress. Type SAVE GAME when you encounter a potentially dangerous
situation.
If you do encounter danger, and your character suffers an unfortunate
accident (such as death), you can type RESTORE GAME to return to the
place you were at when you last saved your game. Careful use of this
function has saved many gallant knights from returning to lowly peasant
status.

3.BE OBSERVANT
Look at and examine everything you can. When you enter a new location
type LOOK AROUND. When you open a box type OPEN THE BOX. If you want to
see the contents of the box type LOOK IN THE BOX. When you want to talk
to a fisherman type TALK TO THE FISHERMAN. The descriptions and
close-ups offered may provide valuable clues.

4.MAP YOUR PROGRESS
Draw a map that includes each place you visit, objects found, dangerous
areas, and every landmark you see along the way. Try not to miss any
area, or you may miss an important clue or item necessary to the
completion of your quest. Also, don't think that because you've been
somewhere once, it will be the same the next time. The people of Tamir
(and other places you might visit) can move around as well as you (some
even better).

5.BRING ALONG SOME HELP
The land of Tamir can be terrifying at night. You may find it helpful
to play along with a friend. Different people come up with different
ways to interpret clues, and besides, most adventurers work in teams.

6.ARM YOURSELF WITH THE PROPER VERBS
King's Quest IV understands a wide variety of verbs such as:

Bait           Dismount       Hit        Pry        Stand
Blow           Dive           Hug        Pull       Start
Bounce         Dock           Jump       Push       Steal
Break          Drink          Kill       Put        Sweep
Bridle         Drop           Kiss       Raise      Swim
Calm           Eat            Knock      Read       Swing
Call           Enter          Lay        Remove     Take
Cast           Exit           Lead       Ride       Talk
Catch          Feed           leave      Rock       Tempt
Clean          Find           Lie        Say        Throw
Climb          Fish           Lift       Save       Tickle
Close          Flip           Light      Shake      Turn
Command        Follow         Lock       Shine      Undress
Cross          Force          Look       Shoot      Unlock
Cure           Free           Make       Shout      Untie
Cut            Frighten       Move       Sing       Use
Dance          Give           Open       Sit        Wade
Detach         Go             Pet        Sleep      Wake
Dig            Help           Play       Smell      Wave
Dim            Hide           Polish     Speak      Wear

7.LEAVE NO STONE UNTURNED
There's much more to a 3-D Animated Adventure Game than meets the eye.
Try any action you can think of--even the forbidden. No one ever served
a stretch of time on the rack from playing computer games. If you do
run into serious trouble, you can always resort back to your RESTORE
GAME function.

8.AT THE END OF YOUR ROPE?
If you've tried every possible trick in the book and still can't get
anywhere, don't panic. Even the most stalwart of adventures have been
caught in the midst of a confusion spell.

For this reason, hint books are available for all of Sierra's 3-D
Animated Adventures.

YOUR ADVENTURE BEGINS...
AN INTRODUCTORY WALK-THRU TO KING'S QUEST IV

Press Return to bypass the title screen. Press Return again to bypass
the credits screen.

The adventure starts with an introductory cartoon. You should watch the
cartoon at least once, as it provides valuable information you need in
completing your quest. To bypass the introductory cartoon, press
Return.

You start out on the west shore of the beach. There are many objects
you can LOOK at.

Type:
LOOK AROUND 
A river, coming from the east, spills into the blue ocean before you. A
lonely beach edges the ocean. From atop the bluff, alovely meadow
stretches eastward.

Type:

LOOK AT THE SKY
The bright blue sky seems to merge as one with the vast ocean before
you.

LOOK AT THE ROCKS
There are not many rocks here.

LOOK AT THE BIRD
You see many seagulls gliding through the air in their never-ending
quest for food.

LOOK AT THE WATER
The wide blue ocean disappears into the horizon to the west.

LOOK AT THE CLOUDS
Billowy clouds float serenely in the blue sky.

LOOK AT THE SAND
The blue water of the ocean washes serenely over this pretty sand
beach.

LOOK AT THE FLOWERS
Beautiful wildflowers adorn the green meadowland to the east.

LOOK AT THE RIVER
The cold water of the river contrasts sharply with the warmer ocean
water as the two converge.


Walk intothe ocean. When you get in waist deep, you will begin to swim.
Practice swimming around.

Type:
LOOK AROUND
A poor fisherman's shanty adorns this part of the coastline. A pier
stretches, from the house, out into the ocean to the west. You see a
pretty meadowland off to the east.

LOOK AT THE HOUSE
The fisherman's shack looks badly in need of repair, as the sun wind,
and salt spray have taken their toll. From the house, an old pier leads
out into the ocean.

LOOK AT THE PIER
The old worn pier juts out into the ocean from the weather-beaten
house.

Walk onto the pier ad head west. The screen will change. You see an old
fisherman fishing off the pier. As you approach, the fisherman gets up,
and walks off the screen to the east. Follow the fisherman east. The
screen will change. Walk up to the door.

Type:
OPEN DOOR
The dorr opens and you enter. The screen will change. You are inside
the fisherman's shanty. Walk up to the man.

Type:
TALK TO THE FISHERMAN
You talk to the grizzled fisherman as he sits at the table. Sighing, he
tells you, "Them fish ain't been bitin' lately. If things don't git
better soon, I don't know WHAT to do!"

Type:
TALK TO THE FISHERMAN
In reply, the old fisherman comments, "Me and the wife ain't gettin any
younger, and times is tough. If you've got any ideas, let me know."

Again type:
TALK TO THE FISHERMAN
The fisherman chooses to ignore your attempted conversation. Instead,
he looks dismally into his coffee cup and sighs heavily.

While you're here, take a look around.

Type:LOOK AROUND
The inside of the fisherman's shack looks almost as shabby as the
outside. You notice the fisherman's pole in the corner.

LOOK AT THE TABLE
It looks like an old worn table.

LOOK AT THE BED
The lumpy bed looks old and uninviting.

LOOK AT THE FISH
You see a large fish hanging on the wall.

LOOK AT THE STOVE
At least the stove keeps it warm in here.

LOOK AT THE COFFEE POT
The smell of hot coffee fills the room.

DRINK SOME COFFEE
You don't like coffee.

TALK TO THE WOMAN
You introduce yourself to the old fisherman's wife. With little
patience, she responds, "What're you doin' here, young lady?! Can't you
see I'm busy?! We have enough problems without worryin''bout you!"

TALK TO THE WOMAN
You try to talk pleasantly to the tired-looking woman, but your words
fall on deaf ears. She is obviously annoyed by your presence.

The old woman is annoyed by your constant chattering. It might suit you
well to leave her alone.
You are now ready to leave this house ad continue on your adventure.
May fortune be with you along the way!

                     SHORT CUTS FOR COMMON COMMANDS
 You can use function and control keys to short cut many common
commands.

F1            Help screen/Menus: Lists game instructions(including some
              specific to your game which may not be mentioned here)
F2            Toggle sound (on or off)
F3 or Spaceb. Echo (repeat) previous command
F5            Save game
F7            Restore game
F9            Restart game

Function keys F4, F6, F8 and F10 may be used for specific functions in
your game.

Ctrl I or Tab        Inventory
Ctrl P               Pause game
Ctrl Q               Quit game
Ctrl S               Speed adjustment

       OR

     - key           Slower
     = key           Normal
     + key           Faster

Ctrl V               Volume adjustment for sound


                     TYPED BY    THE TWINS    OF TRILOGY

                              IN OCTOBER 1989

