                        KINGS QUEST IV SOLUTION

By ???. Edited by PARASITE.


Start at the beach and swim left, through to GENESTA's island being carefull
to avoid the shark.

ON the beach you will find a peacock feather.

Swim back to the main island.

Go to the castle path and allow yourself to be carried up to the castle and
go through the dialog, the guards will remove you from the jail cell and take
you back to the forest.

Enter the cottage of the seven dwarfs by the river and clean their house. The
dwarfs will return and invite you to supper. After the meal get the bag of
diamonds. Take them bach to the MINE and try and give it back to the Head
dwarf. He will then give you a LAMP.

Get the worm from the ground, go to the fishermans cottage and walk on to the
pier. The fisherman will go back to his cottage. Go inside and give the
fisherman the diamonds & you will get the fishing pole. Go to the pier & fish.

Under the bridge there is a gold ball. Take the ball to the pond where the frog
is and drop the ball in the water. The frog will fetch the ball and return it
to you. Get the frog and kiss him. He will give you his crown.

Go to the haunted house and look in the library, get the book of shakespeare.
Take the book to the stump near the fishermans cottage and give it to the
minstrel. He will give you his lute. Take the Lute and find PAN, play lute and
swap the loot for the flute.

You are now ready to find the magic fruit.

Go to the waterfall and put the crown on, you will turn into a frog and swim
under the waterfall to the cave. Get the board. light your lamp and go into
the cave, get the bones in the corner. Find your way through the maze, (save
frequently because of the troll and hole)  when you find the hole put your
board across it and walk across. pick up the board and take it with you to
the exit of the cave.

At the swamp jump on the grass across to the island, at the last clump of grass
you will need to put down your board. When you step on the island a cobra will
begin to dance. Play your flute and hypnotize him. Get the apple and make your
way back across the grass and through the tunnel.

Go to the roman baths and CUPID will apper and swim in the pool when he flys
off and leaves his arrows get them. Find the unicorn and shoot him with an
arrow, this will allow you to approach him. Now you will need a bridle to ride
him.

Go to the beach and swim out, A whale should appear and if you swim towards
the whale you will be sucked into it. This was the tricky part of the game
that had us stuck for days. To get out of the whale you must tickle it. Go to
the left side of the tongue and climb diagnoally towards the right. You should
end up kneeling about half way up the tongue. go up a bit further, without
falling and TICKLE whale. You will be coughed out and can swim to the island.
Once there throw the fish to the pelican and get the whistle. Look ground in
the bow of the wreck and there is the bridle. Blow whistle to get the dolphin
and ride it back to the mainland.

Find the unicorn and put the bridle on him. Ride the unicorn and he will go
to the path to the castle, Your next task will be to get the hen from the
OGRE. The OGRE's cottage is now open, but watch out for the Ogre's wife.
Throw the dog the bone and he will leave you alone. Go upstairs and get the
OGREs axe from the bedroom. Go back downstairs and open the closet door and
hide. Look through the keyhole and you will see the OGRE having his dinner,
when he falls asleep open the door. Go and get the hen and run for the door.

Take the hen to the castle and return

Where the trees are go and chop down a tree, the trees afraid of your mighty
axe will leave you alone. You can go to the SKULL cave scene to the right of
the trees. Inside the cave the three witches will try to get you. Take their
EYE from them. Go out of the scene and come back they will throw you a SCARAB,
give them back the eye for extra points.

It should now be dark.

Go to the haunted house. and in the library look at the picture, it should
direct you to a secret lever on the wall exposing a secret door get the shovel.
There should be the sound of a baby crying in the upstairs nursery. The
ghosts require apeasing. Go to the graveyard on the left side of the house. To
the back and left, read the tombstone about the baby who died. Dig and you will
find a baby rattle, take the rattle to the cot and give it to the ghost.
The next ghost will appear, a MISER, once again got to the graveyard and dig
at the misers grave, take the bag of coins to the ghost, next is a lady weeping,
this grave is on the right side , dig and get a locket, Next is the LORD ghost
in the left graveyard you will find a medal, give this to the ghost. Next and
last is WILLY, you can follow willy to the attic or go and dig in his grave
inthe right graveyard and get his toy horse. Follow willy to the attic, he
will be sitting on a chest, give him the  toy horse and he will dissappear.
Open the chest and take the sheet music to the tower where the shovel was and
climb the stairs to the organ loft. PLay the sheet music, and a drawer will
open. Get the key and go to the crypt in the right graveyard.

Unlock the crypt and get the rope, climb the rope ladder to the bottom and
walk towards the box. Get pandoras box and climb the ladder out. Take the box
to the castle where you will get your reward.

Wait in the bedroom until the rose is slipped under the door, take the  key and
unlock the door, go down the stairs. Your possesions are in the kitche cupboard,
get them and sneak past the sleeping guard, go to the  right tower and climb up
to the to bedroom. unlock the door, go inside  and fire your arrow. When the
evil queen dies you will be able to get the TALISMAN. and walk freely through
the castle. On your way down at the first landing go into the storeroom and get
the HEN & PANDORAS box.   Go down and out the front door to the stable and set
the unicorn free.

Walk down the hill and swim to GENESTA's island and give her the talisman.

This should get you 226 out of 230 points.
