Jimmy White's Whirlwhind Snooker


 CHEAT MODE:

 Whilst playing at the table press [F7], [F4] and [F1] in succession
 and you'll hear the sound of a double click. Now when you next return
 to the main options page and enter the "Demo Mode" you'll find a new
 option titled "Do A Random 147 Break".
 Click on this and you'll never guess what happens.


JIMMY WHITE'S WHIRLWIND SNOOKER PLAYERS GUIDE
---------------------------------------------
The best way of improving your snooker is to buy a book or video of snooker
tips. The best way of getting to grips with Archer Maclean's 3D spectacular
is to apply some of these handy hints.
  These tips aren't designed to help you win every game (although there is a
cheat which allows you to score 147 every time, we will publish it a later 
date). What Archer has kindly done is to highlight some areas of the game
you might have missed.
  That said, these should still improve ypur game - there are, after all, a 
staggering 164,000,000 possible shots, an accuracy of upto a 64th of a
degree, 88 levels of power and 81 different spin combinations. Anything that
can help you out with all that can't be too bad can it?

CHALK
-----
If you are hitting a straight shot, with no spin at all, you don't need any
chalk. The more spin you apply to the cue ball, the more chalk you need. As
a general rule, chalking your cue three times is safe for almost any shot.

AIMING
------
To get the computer to pot any ball automatically, turn on both view lines
and touch the ball of your choice with the right mouse button. If the shot
is possible, it will set the angle and power correctly. If you're not sure
which shot to go for, click on the question mark icon with the right mouse
button; the computer will then work out the best shot to take and set it up.
In a normal game you can't get the computer to take your shot without going
thru a long process. When theres a tricky shot to be played, save your game
to disk then load it into the trick shot editor. Ask the computer to play
the shot and watch. Then repeat the process as closely as possible when you
reload the game. Alternatively, you could turn on the two view lines and
click on the desired ball with the right mouse button. This will line up the
shot dead centre, from where you can adjust the the angle slightly left or
right, depending on the shot. Naturally, the overhead view is best to use
for this. When starting a normal game the computer usually sets up the best
opening shot for you. Just set the power and spin and away you go.

CAMERA TRICKS
-------------
Not many people have realised (despite it being mentioned numerous times)
that after you've taken a shot, the camera can follow the balls around the
table. A quick recap. After clicking on the take shot icon:

Hold down the left mouse button to follow both the cueball and the first
ball hit.
Hold down the right mouse button to follow the angle of the cue ball.
Hold down both buttons to follow the angle of the first ball hit.
Hold down the left mouse button on the goto cue ball icon to follow directly
behind the cue ball.

TRICK SHOTS
-----------
To complete a trick shot (or to see if you can stump the computer), simply
set up any layout and go to the demo mode, starting from that layout. You
can then watch the computer play the shot (if its possible). A word of
warning. If all the colours aren't on the table the computer will probably
set them up anyway. If you have a red on the table it will set up every
colour, but if you only have a blue and a black it will also set up the pink
(thinking that you want the last three colours). It is possible to save
layouts to a seperate disk (possibly to challenge a friend with). Go into
the disk features menu and save the current game (or layout) to disk. When
this happens, the computer loads in all the current layouts on the disk, so
just swap the disk for a spare one, select an empty slot and save game. All
the layouts will now be copied to this disk which you can give to a friend
(and Archer Maclean say's its ok to do this, just don't copy the game itself
because that is illegal (hehe!)). One more thing. When loading a game, hold
down the left mouse button as you move the pointer as you move up and down
the saved games. You'll be able to see each layout, making your game
selection easier.

End.