                         The Humble Guy's HumbleDox
     
                                   Presents
   
              Jimmy White's 'Whirlwind Snooker: Complete Game Manual
 

Jimmy White's 'Whirlwind' Snooker

CREDITS:
         
Conceived & Written by Archer Maclean
Visuals & Sound FX by Archer Maclean
Music by Michael Powell
Manual by Gary Penn
Manual Design & Artwork by Definition
         
CONTENTS              

LOADING

THE TITLE SEQUENCE                 pg.4
OPTIONS                            pg.5
GAME CONTROL                       pg.6
CHOOSING AN OPTION                 pg.7
START ONE PLAYER GAME              pg.7
START TWO PLAYER GAME              pg.8
TWO PLAYER PRACTICE                pg.9
SET UP TRICK SHOT                  pg.10
ENTER DEMO MODE                    pg.10
DISK FEATURES                      pg.11
RETURN TO TABLE                    pg.14
PLAYING SNOOKER                    pg.15
CONTROL DURING PLAY                pg.15
WHAT YOU CAN EXPECT TO SEE         pg.16
THE BREAK                          pg.18
POTTING A BALL                     pg.18
CHOOSING A COLOUR                  pg.18
THE COMPUTER IS THINKING           pg.18 
ICON CONTROL                       pg.19 
USING THE KEYBOARD                 pg.26
USING THE MOUSE ON THE TABLE       pg.27 
FOLLOWING THE SHOT                 pg.27
USING THE TRICK SHOT EDITER        pg.29
USING THE COMPUTER TO TAKE SHOTS   pg.31 
SOLVING GAME PROBLEMS              pg.31 
A TRICK SHOT                       pg.32 
GETTING STARTED                    pg.33 
THE ART OF SPIN AND SWERVE         pg.37 
TOP SPIN                           pg.38 
BACK SPIN                          pg.39 
SIDE SPIN                          pg.40 
SWERVE                             pg.42 
HEAD ON SHOT                       pg.42 
ANGLE SHOT ON BALL                 pg.43 
THE COMPUTER OPPONENTS             pg.44 


WELCOME
         
Welcome to Jimmy White's Whirlwhid Snooker, by far and away the 
finest computer-based snooker simulation in the world. Jimmy White's 
Whirlwind Snooker adheres to the rules of real snooker, and the 
balls obey the laws of physics to the letter. Jimmy White's 
Whirlwind Snooker allows one or two players to practice against each 
other, set up and perform trick shots or compete against each other 
or four increasingly challenging computer-controlled opponents (one 
of whom is Jimmy White himself), and plenty more besides. This 
manual has been produced to ensure that you get the very best out of 
this premium product. If you should find either the program or the 
manual unsatisfactory in any way, drop us a line detailing in full 
the cause of your disatisfaction. This will help us avoid repeating 
any similar problems in the future. 

CAUTION

Diskettes are magnetic media, just like cassette tapes such as 
Desmond Decker: The Collection. Do not expose diskettes to x-rays or 
intense magnetic fields as the data they hold will be erased. Do not 
attempt to 'back-up' this data as it may be destroyed in the process 
and is an infringement of copyright, and Virgin Games Ltd accepts no 
responsiblity for disks damaged as a direct result of infringement 
of copyright. 

LOADING JIMMY WHITE'S SNOOKER

To enjoy this product to the full you will need a Compatible Mouse 
and a Disk of Little WHIRLWIND Consequence for the sole purpose of 
the storage of scores and games. 

If your Amiga is turned on, turn it off. After at least 30 seconds, 
turn on your Amiga. This will remove any virus which may be present 
and so minimise the risk of infecting and possibly destroying your 
Jimmy White ' s Whirlwind Snooker disk . Insert the Jimmy White ' s 
Whirlwind Snooker disk into the internal disk drive. The program 
will load and run automatically. If the mouse is to be used to play 
Jimmy White's Whirlwind Snooker it must be plugged into its usual 
hole - ie, the port marked ' I JOYSTICK'. Otherwise, you can use the 
keyboard. 

LOADING PROBLEMS 

Should Jimmy White's Whirlwind Snooker fail to load, turn off your 
machine and remove any extraneous external peripherals such as 
printers (leave the monitor or television connected) before 
repeating the loading procedure. If Jimmy White's Whirlwind Snooker 
still refuses to - ah - play ball, as it were, then pop the faulty 
disk (not the packaging) into a suitably-sized jiffy bag or padded 
envelope, along with your name and address. To aid the 
trouble-shooting department, please provide in as much detail as 
possible your equipment configuration (not forgetting any RAM 
expansion devices). Send the package to: JWWS Replacements, Virgin 
Games Ltd, 338A Ladbroke Grove, London W10 5AH. Virgin Games Ltd 
will endeavour to replace the fault disk within 28 days of its 
receipt. 

THE TITLE SEQUENCE

When you see this title sequence you will know that Jimmy White's 
Whirlwind Snooker has loaded successfully. To pass this sequence at 
any time press either of the two mouse buttons or  any key other 
than 'Ctrl', 'Caps Lock'or either of the two, 'SHIFT', 'Alt' or 'A' 
keys. 

If the title sequence has not been passed after approximately one 
minute, the program enters a short computer-controlled demonstration 
mode which serves to show 10 different types of sllot. Simply press 
the 'Esc' key to quit this demonstration. 

When the title sequence is passed for the first time you will be 
asked to enter a password, which is found within the History Manual. 
The page number, the line on which the word will be tound and the 
number of the word itself along the line are given - for example, 
PAGE 4, LINE 1, WORD 1 is appropriately enough,'JlMMY'. Use the 
keyboard to type the password then press RETURN. 

If the password is incorrect you will begiven two further chances to 
get it right. lf you enter three IIONS incorrect passwords the game 
will fail to work, in which case turn off your computer and fol low 
the loading procedure from scratch again. If the password is correct 
you will be presented with the GAME CONTROL menu from which play can 
begin. 

OPTIONS

Jimmy White's Whirlwind Snooker has many options. Most of them are 
displayed in panels - or 'windows' - thus ... 

Some options have windows of their own. When such an option is 
selected, its window is placed on top of the previous one. You can 
remove - or 'close' - this new window and return to the previous one 
by selecting CANCEL. 

If no key is pressed and the mouse isn't moved in any way for 
approximately one minute al1d GAME CONTROL that' s during any 
selection, too - the title sequence is replayed. Note that the table 
arrangement shown below the Game Control window will be reset too. 
Press the 'Esc' key to return to the GAME CONTROL menu from any of 
its related option windows. 

GAME CONTROL

1. START ONE PLAYER GAME 

Play for real against one of four computer-controlled opponents 
including Jimmy himself. 

2. START TWO PLAYER GAME 

Play for real against a human-controlled opponent. 

3. TWO PLAYER PRACTICE 

Play for laughs against a human-controlled opponent. 

4. SET UP TRICK SHOT 

Arrange the balls to set up trick shots or solve problems from any 
other game mode. You can also create and play the situation of your 
choice as this option doubles up as a handy single- player practice. 

5. ENTER DEMO MODE 

Watch two computer opponents play to see how it's done. 

6. DISK FEATURES 

Save games to disk for later use or load games, scores and breaks 
from disk. 

7. OPTIONS 

Remove all saved games and scores from disks. You can also return to 
the title screen sequence from here. 

8. RETURN TO TABLE 

Resume play from the table set-up shown below the Game Control 
panel. 

CHOOSING AN OPTION

WITH THE MOUSE 

Move the arrow so that it points to the desired option. Press the 
left-hand mouse button to highlight the option in question thus ... 

Pressing the right-hand button selects the highlighted option. 

WITH THE KEYBOARD 

Use the up and down arrow - or 'cursor' - keys to move the highlight 
up and down through the options. Press the RETURN key to select the 
highlighted option. 

CANCEL 

Maybe you selected the wrong option or perhaps you changed your 
mind. Either way, highlight and select CANCEL when it's available to 
return to the previous menu of options and game state. 

START ONE PLAYER GAME

You cannot UNDO the last shot played (see PLAYING SNOOKER). You 
cannot use the computer to determine the best possible shot (see 
PLAYING SNOOKER). You can save the game to disk for later use (see 
DISK FEATURES). Any worthwhile human-produced scores and breaks will 
be saved to disk once the game reaches a conclusion (see SAVING 
SCORES AND BREAKS). 

ENTER NAME 1 

Before you do anything else, enter your name - a maximum of eight 
characters without spaces. You can only use the 26 letters of the 
alphabet - no other keyboard characters (such as numbers) are 
available. Well, other than the backspace key for deleting the 
character to the left of the cursor. If you attempt to begin play 
without entering your name the highlight will return to ENTER NAME 
and you will have to enter something. The name is considered entered 
when the RETURN key is pressed. 

PLAY AGAINST

Satisfied with your name? Good. Now choose an opponent (as you can 
see, the difficulty levels are show on the right of the names). 
Highlight and select the desired opponent to bein a one player game 
(see THE COMPUTER OPPONENTS).

HEAD OR TAILS ...

Having started a Two Player Game, a 'coin' is 'tossed' to determine 
who will break. The result is shown thus ... 

To begin play, select OK - either by pointing to it and pres.shlg 
the right-hand mouse button or by simply pressing the 'RETURN ' key. 
See PLAYING SNOOKER for details of how to play. 

START TWO PLAYER GAME

You can UNDO the last shot played (see PLAYING SNOOKER). You can use 
the computer to pot any ball for you or to determine the best 
possible shot. You can save the pratice game to disk for later use 
(see DISK FEATURES). Any worthwhile scores and breaks are NOT saved 
to disk once the practice game reaches a conclusion. 

ENTER NAME 

Two names must be entered (unless they already have been via the two 
player game option). 

START PRACTICE GAME 

Highlight and select this to begin the practice session. 

HEAD OR TAILS ... 

Having started a Two Player Practice game, a 'coin' is 'tossed' to 
deterrnine who will break. The result is shown thus ... 

To begin play, select OK - either by pointing to it and pressing the 
right-hand mouse button or by simply pressing the 'RETURN' key. See 
PLAYING SNOOKER for details of how to play. 

SET UP TRICK SHOT 

You can UNDO the last shot played (see PLAYING SNOOKER). You can use 
the computer to determine the best possible shot. You can save the 
trick shot to disk for later use (see DISK FEATURES). Note that 
scores are not kept in Trick Shot mode. 

START TRICK SHOT EDITOR 

Highlight and select to enter the Trick Shot Editor. 

See USING THE TRICK SHOT EDITOR for details of how to use it. 

ENTER DEMO MODE

Watching two computer-controlled opponents battle it out on the 
table can prove both absorbing and educational. Press the 'Esc' key 
during the demonstration to return to the GAME CONTROL menu. Note 
that while the cue is in motion the 'Esc' key has no immediate 
effect. You cannot save a demo game to disk. Any worthwhile scores 
and breaks are not saved to disk. 

BEGIN DEMO GAME FROM THE START 

Select this to see a complete game unfold before your very eyes. 

START DEMO GAME FROM CURRENT LAYOUT 

Select this to begin play from the layout shown below the GAME 
CONTROL window. Now you can see how the game that was previously in 
play unfolds in the hands of the professionals. You can also use 
this feature in conjunction with previously saved games to see how 
the computer would handle them (certain trick shots can also be 
used). Load the saved game then quit to the GAME CONTROL menu. Now 
select ENTER DEMO MODE and choose to begin it from the current 
layout. 

DISK FEATURES

LOAD AN OLD GAME FROM DISK 

Selecting this option presents you with a choice of 15 'slots' on 
the disk, each containing a previously saved game. Slots with no 
title are empty. To load the saved game of your choice simply select 
it (using either the mouse or keyboard). Once the saved game has 
loaded you resume play from it. 

If you cannot remember the contents of any of the saved games simply 
highlight the saved game title in question to view the table 
arrangement below the panel. Holding down the left-hand mouse button 
allows you to move the highlight up and down the selection of saved 
games and view them. 

CANNOT LOAD AN EMPTY FILE 

You cannot load an empty file, so don't try. This is what you are 
shown if you do. 

SAVE CURRENT GAME TO DISK 

Selecting this option presents you with a choice of 15 ' slots ' on 
the disk to which games can be saved. Pressing the RETURN key 
returns you to the Game Control menu. Otherwise, select the desired 
slot, be it an empty slot (shown as a line of 27 dots) or an 
existing one to be overwritten, as you would an option. Now use the 
keyboard to enter a name for the saved game. The name may be up to 
27 characters in length. Unlike the player names, saved game names 
CAN include spaces, numbers, full stops and dashes. The BACKSPACE 
key removes the last character entered. Press RETURN to register the 
name and save the game. You will then be returned to the GAME 
CONTROL menu. 

To allow you to distinguish between the four possible saved game 
types a three-letter code is added to the title of the game saved. 
You can see these in a column to the far right of the DISK FEATURES 
panel. 

One Player Games are saved with the extension IPG. 

Two Player Games are saved with the extension 2PG. 

Trick Shots are saved with the extension TRK. 

Practice Games are saved with the extension PRC. 

Note that with a slot highlighted, pressing the RETURN key 
automatically creates a title for the saved game. 

One Player Games will be saved as ONE V [COMPUTER PLAYER NAME] 
[SCORE]. 

Two Player Games will be saved as ONE V TWO [SCORE]. 

Trick Shots will be saved as TRICK SHOT. 

Pratice Games will be saved as ONE V TWO ISCOREl. 

SAVING SCORES AND BREAKS 

When a One or Two Player Game reaches its conclusion, the best 
human-produced scores and breaks are saved to disk. Note that this 
is provided a suitable disk is in the computer's internal drive - 
ie, a disk formatted for the purpose of storing scores and breaks 
(this includes the Jimmy White's Whirlwind Snooker disk) - and that 
the scores and breaks are high enough to merit saving in the first 
place. 

VIEW BEST BREAKS 1 PG AND 2PG 

Calls up this display of best breaks ... 

VIEW BEST SCORES 

Calls up this display of best scores. There is a separate table for 
each of the four levels of computer opponent and the two player 
game. 

COPYING SAVED GAMES 

Here's a useful means of copying saved games to another disk. Take 
your save disk and insert it into the computer's internal drive. Use 
the SAVE option to call up the saved games or scores (this actually 
loads every saved game from disk). Remove this save disk and insert 
the disk to which the games are to be copied (ensure that it is 
formatted). Now use the SAVE option - it will save not only the game 
in question but the entire selection of saved games to the new disk. 

OPTIONS 

The two options which cater for disk management are both used in the 
same way. If there's a problem erasing data, you will be warned with 
a 'CLUNK!' sound and this window ... 

Select CANCEL to return to the GAME CONTROL menu. 

ERASE ALL SAVED GAMES ON DISK 

Selecting this option calls up this window ... 

Select YES to remove any saved games on the disk. You will then be 
returned to the GAME CONTROL menu. Note that this does not affect 
the rest of the disk. 

This option also serves to create save game slots on a small section 
of a disk not previously used for saving games. Ensure that the 
write-protect tab is enabled, ie, the hole is closed. Insert the 
disk into the internal drive then select the ERASE option to create 
the save game slots on the disk. 

ERASE ALL SCORE DATA ON DISK 

Selecting this option calls up this window ... 

Select YES to remove any scores and breaks saved on the disk. You 
will then be returned to the GAME CONTROL menu. Note that this does 
not affect the rest of the disk. 

QUIT TO TITLE SCREEN SEQUENCE 

If you have a hankering to see that pretty swirling whirlwind 
pattern again, select this option. 

RETURN TO TABLE 

Selecting this option from the outset will take you straight into 
the TRICK SHOT mode. Otherwise, play will resume from the point at 
which it was abandoned - even if the computer was thinking.

PLAYING SNOOKER

There are three means to this end - two of them are mouse 
orientated, the other is via the keyboard. All are accessable at 
once. As with choosing options, the mouse moves an arrow. By 
pointing this arrow at an icon and pressing or pressing and holding 
down the left-hand or right-hand mouse button (or both even) the 
icon's function is activated. This arow can also be used directly on 
the table and balls to activate certain functions. 

CONTROL DURING PLAY

A mix of mouse and keyboard control is recommended. Author Archer 
Maclean prefers to use only the icons for applying chalk, fine 
control of aim and actually taking a shot. Everything else  he does 
by using the mouse directly on the table and balls. 

The table is viewed from almost every possible angle via a remote 
camera which is effectively attached to the end of the cue. The 
camera 'focuses' on the central point shown here and its movement is 
relative to this point. 

At the top of the screen is a control panel packed with small 
descriptive pictures of available functions - or 'icons'. These 
icons are selected by pointing at them with the mouse-controlled 
arrow and then pressing or pressing and holding down the left-hand 
or right-hand mouse button or both at once. Some functions behave 
differently depending on which mouse button has been pressed. Others 
behave the same regardless of which button is used to activate them. 
Note that this panel can also be placed down the left-hand side of 
the screen 

WHAT YOU CAN EXPECT TO SEE

THE BALLS ARE IN MOTION 

To show that a shot is in play and that balls are in motion, the 
mouse-controlled arrow undergoes a small transformation to look like 
this ... 

Some functions are understandably not available while the shot is 
being played. The functions that can be used are detailed in 
CONTROLS. 

THE BREAK

The winner of the toss gets to break first. This player also gets to 
move the cue ball around the 'D' at the top of the table. Simply use 
the mouse to point the arrow at the cue ball then hold down the 
left-hand mouse button the arrow wi 11 charge into a black hand to 
show that the ball has been 'grabbed'. You can now move the cue ball 
around the 'D' - but NOT outside it or through the three coloured 
bal ls in the 'D ' . Note that the cue ball is actual ly correctly 
positioned for a suitable break - all you have to do is set the 
power and spin as you see fit. 

POTTING A BALL

When a ball is potted in real snooker it hardly makes a sound. When 
a ball is potted in Jimmy Whites Whirlwind Snooker, a 'popping' 
sound is heard, just to let you know that it has gone in, and this 
small table appears in the control panel ... 

As you can see, the ball potted is shown next to the table 'map' and 
the pocket is highlighted. 

CHOOSING A COLOR

With a red in the bag, so to speak, you now must choose a colour to 
pot, as indicated by this icon in the control panel.

THE COMPUTER IS THINKING..

Use the mouse to move the arrow to point to the desired colour ball 
on the table then press the left-hand mouse button. Alternatively, 
press the equivalent number key (but NOT on the keypad) to choose, 
eg, key '2' for yellow, key '7' for black. 

This clock symbol is shown whenever the computer is thinking. It 
could be the computer opponent considering its next move or maybe 
you asked for help with the best possible shot available. Whatever 
the reason, the mouse pointer is not available while the computer 
thinks. Press the 'Esc' key if you wish to quit to the GAME CONTROL 
menu. 

FOUL

Any player who breaks the rules of snooker is penalised accordingly. 
With the points from the foul awarded to the 'innocent' player, a 
window is displayed .... 

The 'innocent' player now has to choose whether to play a shot as 
normal or to make the 'guilty' player play again. Point the arrow at 
the desired letter and press a mouse button to make a choice. 
Alternatively, press either 'A' or 'B' on the keyboard.

TINK!

If a function cannot be performed, it won't be and a 'TINK!' sound 
will be heard.

Simply use the mouse to move the arrow so it points to the desired 
function icon then press a mouse button to activate it.

VIEW Q BALL

You have to be 'on' the cue ball to take a shot. If the TAKE SHOT 
cue ball icon has a cross on it, you are 'on' the cue ball. 
Otherwise, press the left-hand mouse button to go straight in close 
to the cue ball thus..

A second press of the left-hand mouse button will rotate the view 
through 180 degrees thus..

Press the right-hand mouse button to go straight to this view. If you 
are already 'on' the cue ball, the view will be rotated through 180 
degrees.

VIEW LINE

View the direction in which the cue ball will travel if it 
uninterrupted and no spin is applied. Note that activating this 
function takes you to the cue ball if you weren't already 'on' it.

Press the left-hand mouse button to toggle on and off a single view 
line projected from the centre of the cue ball.

Press the right-hand mouse button to toggle on and off a double view 
line. The second view line shows the angle at which an uninterrupted 
cue ball without any spin applied will rebound off a cushion.

CONTROL

Press the left-hand mouse button to return to the GAME CONTROL menu. 
Press the right-hand mouse button to call up a HELP menu...

CHALK CUE

Press either mouse button to apply chalk to the tip of the cue. This 
is used to improve the cue tip's 'grip' and so minimise the 
possibility of miscueing. Note that when playing a straight shot - 
ie, no spin is applied - you do not need any chalk. The greater the 
spin applied, the more chalk is applied (there is still a remote 
chance of miscueing however).

TOP SPIN

Press either mouse button to move the hit point on the cue ball up 
from the centre to the top. The higher the hit point on the cue 
ball, the greater the top spin applied. Top spin is also used to 
swerve the cue ball (see THE ART OF SPIN AND SWERVE). Note that 
using this function takes you to the cue ball if you weren't already 
'on' it.

SIDE SPIN (left)

Press either mouse button to move the hit point on the cue ball to 
the left from the centre. The further the hit point is to the left 
on the cue ball, the greater the left-hand side spin. Side spin is 
also used to swerve the cue ball (see THE ART OF SPIN AND SWERVE). 
Note that using this function takes you to the cue ball if you 
weren't already 'on' it.

SIDE SPIN (right) 

Press either mouse button to move the hit point on the cue ball to 
the right from the centre. The further the hit point is to the right 
on the cue ball, the greater the right-hand side spin. Side spin is 
also used to swerve the cue ball (see THE ART OF SPIN AND SWERVE). 
Note that using this function takes you to the cue ball if you 
weren't already 'on' it.

BACK SPIN 

Press either mouse button to move the hit point on the cue ball down 
from the centre to the bottom. The lower the hit point on the cue 
ball, the greater the back spin applied. Back spin is also used to 
swerve the cue ball (see THE ART OF SPIN AND SWERVE). Note that 
using this function takes you to the cue ball if you weren't already 
'on' it.

TAKE SHOT 

Press either mouse button to call the cue into view and take the 
shot. The cue ball is always hit directly up the screen. Note that 
you must be 'on' the cue ball in order to take the shot. This is 
indicated by a cross in the centre of the TAKE SHOT cue ball icon.

The cross shows the point of impact of the cue on the cue ball. If 
you are not 'on' the cue ball, go to it by selecting the TAKE SHOT, 
VIEW LINE, VIEW Q BALL or SPIN icons.

If you are 'on' the cue ball but the shot is blocked from a 
particular angle, say, by another ball or a cushion, then 'NO' is 
displayed in the centre of the TAKE SHOT cue ball icon thus...

You cannot take a shot while 'NO' is displayed so move around and up 
and over the cue ball until the cross reappears. Whenever the cue 
ball is up against a cushion or behind another ball, the range of 
possible impact points is automatically calculated and displayed on 
the TAKE SHOT cue ball icon as you move around the cue ball. Note 
that by pressing and holding down either mouse button as the shot is 
taken you can actually follow the cue ball and first ball it hits 
(see FOLLOWING THE SHOT). You can also manipulate the table or move 
'on' to balls while the balls are in motion.

SCREEN TYPE 

Press either mouse button to toggle the positioning of the icon 
panel, either above the table or to the side. It's advisable to 
position the panel at the side when playing up or down the table. 
Place the panel at the top of the screen when playing across the 
table.

PLAN VIEW 

View the table from above. There are eight different views 
available. With the control panel positioned at the top of the 
screen, the table is viewed from the sides. When the control panel 
is positioned to the left of the screen, the table is viewed from 
the top and bottom.

Press the left-hand mouse button to call up the first plan view 
thus...

A second press of the left-hand mouse button calls up a plan view 
from the other end or side of the table...

A third press calls up a closer look at one end or side of the 
table...

A fourth press calls up a closer look at the other end or side of 
the other end of the table...

A fifth press would call up the first plan view again, and so on.

Pressing the right-hand mouse button will take you back to the 
original 'in- play' view of the table. Pressing the right-hand moust 
button a second time however will return you to the last plan view 
selected with the left-hand mouse button. So, if you find a plan 
view to your liking and don't wish to step through time and time 
again with the left-hand mouse button, simply call up the desired 
plan view (using the left-hand mouse button of course) then press the 
right-hand mouse button to 'remember' it. If you end up getting 
stuck between two plan views, select the TAKE SHOT icon to return to 
the original 'in-play' view.

VIEW ANGLE 

Increase the angle between the camera and the table, ie, the end or 
side of the table displayed at the top of the screen is 'lifted up' 
so that the camera looks 'over' the table.

This is especially useful for raising the view and forming a 
'bridge' over balls when the cue ball is blocked.

Decrease the angle between the camera and table, ie, the end or side 
of the table displayed at the top of the screen is 'pushed down' so 
that the camera looks 'along' the table thus..

Press and hold down the left-hand mouse button to slowly affect the 
view angle.

Press and hold down the right-hand mouse button to affect the view 
angle at a 'medium' speed.

Press and hold down BOTH mouse buttons to quickly affect the view 
angle.

CUE LEFT

Rotates the table anticlockwise.

Press and hold the left-hand mouse button to rotate the table at a 
slow speed.

Press and hold the right-hand mouse button to rotate the table at a 
'medium' speed.

Press and hold BOTH buttons to rotate the table at a high speed.

CUE RIGHT 

Rotates the table clockwise.

Press and hold the left-hand mouse button to rotate the table at a 
slow speed.

Press and hold the right-hand mouse button to rotate the table at a 
'medium' speed.

Press and hold BOTH buttons to rotate the table at a high speed.

SET POWER

Choose the strength of the shot. This ranges from Zilch Power to 
Lots Of Power. Press and hold down either mouse button then move the 
mouse up and down to decrease and increase the cue power. The length 
of the cue in its box acts as a rough indication of the strength of 
the shot. The shorter the cue, the more powerful the shot. There are 
88 shot strengths in total (and with 23,040 possible angles and 81 
different spin points that's a staggering 164 million possible 
shots). The relative strengths of the determined graduations of cue 
power are shown below (the distances given are approximate and 
assume that the cue ball encounters no other balls on its travels, 
and that no form of spin is applied to the cue ball).

ZILCH POWER

The cue ball will travel approximately half its diameter.

LOW POWER 

The cue ball will travel the distance of approximately two balls.

MEDIUM POWER 

The cue ball will travel around three quarters the length of the 
table.

LOTS OF POWER 

The cue ball will travel the length of the table approximately four 
and a quarter times.

INFORMATION

In a One or Two Player Game or Two Player Practice game, pressing 
the left-hand mouse button calls up this score information window.

This window shows, from the top, the maximum points available from 
the balls remaining, whether either player needs any snookers to 
win, the best break so far, the actual scores in board and 
traditional slider form - Player 1 is at the top, Player 2 is below. 
Shown above and below the player's scores are the quantities of 
balls potted. At the bottom of this window the type of game in play 
is shown.

Press and hold down the left-hand mouse button to keep this window 
on screen.

In Trick Shot mode, pressing the left-hand mouse button calls up a 
Trick Shot control summary window.

ASK COMPUTER FOR BEST SHOT

Pressing the right-hand mouse button asks the computer to calculate 
and set up the best possible shot - either a pot or safety. Note 
that this function is only available in the Two Player Practice or 
Trick Shot options.

UNDO

When you point to an icon its function is shown here. However, if 
you point to this window when playing a Two Player Practice or Trick 
Shot, the word 'UNDO' is shown. Pressing either mouse button cancels 
the last shot taken (or in action) and resets the table to the 
arrangement prior to the shot.

ZOOM IN

Take a closer look at the action.

ZOOM OUT

Take a step back from the action.


USING THE KEYBOARD 

V		View Line
H		Side Spin (Left)
J		Side Spin (Right)
N		Back Spin
U		Top Spin
M		Centralise Hit Point
Z		Zoom In
X		Zoom Out
Q		View Q Ball
P		Plan View
C		Chalk Cue
W		Screen Type
/		Information
S		Compute Best Shot (If Available)
A		Answer Question
B		Answer Question
Cursor Up	View Angle (Decrease)
Cursor Down	View Angle (Increase)
Cursor Left	Cue Left
Cursor Right	Cue Right
[		Cue Left (Fine Control)
]		Cue Right (Fine Control)
1		Place Red (TRO)
2		Place (TRO)/Nominate (During Game) Yellow
3		Place (TRO)/Nominate (During Game) Green
4		Place (TRO)/Nominate (During Game) Brown
5		Place (TRO)/Nominate (During Game) Blue
6		Place (TRO)/Nominate (During Game) Pink
7		Place (TRO)/Nominate (During Game) Black
0		Clear Table (TRO)
Backspace	Relay Table (TRO)
Esc		Game Control *
=		Set Cue Power (Increase)
-		Set Cue Power (Decrease)
Return		Take Shot (Hold To Follow Cue Ball)
Undo		Undo (If Available)
Control		Repeat Previous Key Command
Shift		Repeat Previous Key Command
Alternate	Repeat Previous Key Command

* Note that when the 'Esc' key is pressed during Two Player Practice 
or Trick Shot the last shot taken (or in action) is cancelled and 
the table reset to the arrangement prior to the shot. The point or 
points acquired from the shot are removed. When playing a One or Two 
Player Game, pressing the 'Esc' key does not have this effect. 
Whilst balls are moving, the game waits until the current shot has 
ended.

USING THE MOUSE ON THE TABLE 

This is probably the most 'natural' method of playing Jimmy White's 
'Whirlwind' Snooker. As is the case with the icon control, 
combinations of mouse buttons being pressed or pressed and held down 
produces different functions. Here, however, the functions depend on 
whether the arrow is pointed at a ball or an empty area of table.

Move the arrow so it points to any area of the screen other than the 
icon panel or a ball. Press and hold down only the left-hand mouse 
button - the arrow will turn into this.

You can now rotate the table in a clockwise or anticlockwise 
direction by using the mouse to 'draw' a circle around the camera's 
focal point (see WHAT YOU CAN EXPECT TO SEE). The faster the mouse 
is moved, the faster the table rotates. The nearer the arrow is to 
the centre of the camera's focal point, the faster the table rotates.

Press and hold down only the right-hand mouse button while pointing 
at the table - the arrow will turn into this.

Moving the mouse in a forward direction makes the camera zoom in on 
the table. Moving the mouse in a reverse direction makes the camera 
zoom out from the table (see ZOOM IN and ZOOM OUT in the ICON 
CONTROLS section).

Press and hold down both mouse buttons - the arrow will turn into 
this.. 

You can now rotate and tilt the table in any direction by using the 
mouse to 'draw' a circle around the camera's focal point (see WHAT 
YOU CAN EXPECT TO SEE). The faster the mouse is moved, the faster 
the table rotates and tilts. The nearer the arrow is to the centre 
of the camera's focal point, the faster the table rotates and tilts.

Use the mouse to point the arrow at any ball on the table. Pressing 
the left- hand mouse button puts you 'on' that ball. A second press 
of the left-hand mouse button while pointing at the ball in question 
rotates the table through 180 degrees. Note that this has a 
different effect in Trick Shot mode (see TRICK SHOT). If the ball 
touched by the arrow is not the cue ball, pressing the right-hand 
button lines up the centre of the ball in question with the centre 
of the cue ball and the view is adjusted accordingly.

If either view line is active, touching any ball other than the cue 
ball with the arrow and pressing the right-hand button has a 
different effect. In a One or Two Player Game, this action lines up 
the view line to run through the centre of the cue ball and that of 
the ball which was touched (this does not necessarily set up a 
perfect shot). In a Two Player Practice game or Trick Shot mode, the 
computer sets the parameters necessary to ensure that the ball 
touched is potted. All you have to do is take the shot. Used in 
conjunction with the UNDO function, this aids the understanding of 
angles.

FOLLOWING THE SHOT 

As soon as the shot has been taken you may wish to follow the 
action. You could use the four plan views. Alternatively, you can 
enjoy a super-fast and impressive viewpoint as the camera swoops 
around the table following the cue ball. This is done by immediately 
holding down either mouse button or by ensuring that the arrow 
points to the TAKE SHOT icon and the mouse buttons are used as 
follows...

Pressing and holding down the left-hand mouse button makes the 
camera follow the cue ball and the first ball hit by the cue ball 
from a viewpoint behind the cue ball. The same effect is achieved by 
pressing and holding down the 'RETURN' key.

Pressing and holding down the right-hand mouse button makes the 
camera follow the angle of the cue ball from the point at which the 
shot was taken.

Pressing and holding down both mouse buttons makes the camera follow 
the cue ball from behind. Alternatively, point to the VIEW Q BALL 
icon and press the right-hand button to raise the camera off the 
table. Now press and hold down the left-hand button to follow the 
cue ball from behind but at a higher viewpoint.

USING THE TRICK SHOT EDITOR 

Almost all the functions available in a One or Two Player Game or 
Two Player Practice are available within this option. Those which 
behave differently or simply do not work are detailed here.

The major difference between Trick Shot mode and the Game and 
Practice options is that the balls can be arranged at your leisure. 
To move any ball on the table, use the mouse to point the arrow at 
the desired ball and press the left-hand mouse button to move to it 
(pressing the right-hand button takes you to the ball but also lines 
up its centre with that of the cue ball in the process). Press and 
hold down the left-hand mouse button while pointing to the ball and 
move the mouse to move the ball around the table. The arrow will turn 
into a black hand to show that the ball has been 'grabbed'.

It shouldn't come as any great surprise to learn that you cannot 
place one ball on top of another. You cannot place balls outside of 
the table, on the cushions or in the pockets either.

To remove any ball other than the cue ball from the table, grab it (so the
arrow becomes a hand) then press the 'DELETE' key.

You will notice that there are a few additions to the panel of icons 
- the collection of coloured balls in particular. These are used to 
place the balls on the table in one of two ways - either in circular 
form around the camera's focal point (see WHAT YOU CAN EXPECT TO 
SEE) thus...

Use the mouse to point the arrow at one of the ball icons. Press the 
left-hand mouse button to place the ball in question around the 
camera's focal point. Pressing the right-hand mouse button places 
the ball in a straight line ahead of the camera's focal point. 
Pressing the number keys (not on the keypad) - eg, key '1' for a 
red, key '7' for a black - also places the corresponding balls but 
in the arrangement last used (the default is the circular pattern). 
Note that you cannot place a ball if it already exists on the table.

CLR 

Use the mouse to point the arrow at this icon. Press the left-hand 
mouse button to clear the table of every ball except the cue ball 
(the same effect is achieved by pressing the '0' key - but not on 
the keypad). Press the right-hand button to relay the table from 
scratch. The same effect is achieved by pressing the BACKSPACE key.

UNDO 

Select this function with the left-hand mouse button to reset the 
table to the layout used prior to CLRing the table or playing a 
shot. Pressing the 'UNDO' key has the same effect.

Exiting from the Trick Shot mode to the Game Control menu UNDOes the 
previous shot or CLRance.

Use the left-hand mouse button to select the INFO icon or 
press the '?' key to call up a summary of controls.

USING THE COMPUTER TO TAKE SHOTS 

If you need a little help potting a ball simply ask the computer to 
do it for you. First, activate a view line. Now point to the ball 
you wish to pot. Press the right-hand mouse button to make the 
computer set the approximate angle and power settings necessary to 
pot the ball.

SOLVING GAME PROBLEMS 

If you find yourself stumped when it comes to playing a shot within 
a game situation, try this for size... Press the 'Esc' key to exit 
to the Game Control menu. Now, select the Trick Shot option to play 
the shot in a more flexible environment - ie, you can use the 
computer to show you how the shot should be taken (see USING THE 
COMPUTER TO TAKE SHOTS and ASK COMPUTER FOR BEST SHOT). You can also 
use the Trick Shot option in the same way to solve saved games.

A TRICK SHOT TIP 

People aren't perfect. Setting up the snooker balls on a real table 
is open to a very small margin of error. This is reproduced here. 
The pack of reds is relaid with every new game. To see this effect 
in action, follow these simple steps from within the Trick Shot 
option...

Relay the table by pointing to 'CLR' and pressing the right-hand 
mouse button. Zoom in on a red ball and adjust the view so that the 
pack is seen as a triangle with the apex at the top of the screen.

Now relay the table. With each press of the right-hand mouse button 
you will see the reds shuffle slightly as they are relaid. The 
program never produces the same layout twice.

If the mouse isn't moved in any way and no key is pressed for 
approximately four minutes during the Trick Shot mode, the program 
returns to the Game Control menu. Note that this only occurs in the 
Trick Shot mode.

GETTING STARTED 

Welcome to this brief guide to getting started with JWWS. Before you 
attempt to play for real we recommend that you get a feel for the 
controls and the way that the balls work by using the Trick Shot 
option.

So, select the SET UP TRICK SHOT option from the GAME CONTROL menu. 
You will be presented with the usual startup view of the table.

This is actually a perfect break position - but more of that later. 
There are three main methods of playing JWWS. The first is by using 
the panel of small boxes ('icons') at the top of the screen. Each 
icon has its own function (some have more than one) which is 
activated by using the mouse-controlled arrow you see on screen. 
Move the arrow so that it points to the desired function. Now 
pressing or pressing and holding down the left-hand mouse button, 
the right- hand mouse button or both mouse buttons will activate the 
function.

The second method of control is the keyboard. The functions are 
simply activated by pressing the respective key (see the KEYBOARD 
SUMMARY).

Method Three is to use the mouse to manipulate the table and balls. 
The keyboard or icons are then used to activate certain functions, 
such as actually taking the shot. All three methods of control are 
available at once, so feel free to use any blend you see fit.

Right, your first shot. And seeing as the table's all set for a 
break, this might as well be it. When you first enter the Trick Shot 
option (or, indeed, any other option which involves actual play), 
the cue ball is always positioned for a perfect break. All that's 
required of the player is to set the strength of the shot.

Use the mouse to move the arrow to point to the SCREEN TYPE icon. 
Now press either the left-hand or right-hand mouse button to move 
the panel of icons at the top of the screen to the left-hand side. 
(Alternatively, press the 'W' key). This makes setting the cue power 
a little easier. It also helps generally when playing a shot up or 
down the table as more of it's shown when the panel's placed 
vertically. When playing across the table, place the panel in the 
vertical position.

Point to the SET POWER cue and press and hold down either the left-hand or
right-hand mouse button. Move the mouse up and down to adjust the power so
that the cue's tip is next to the top of the icon description window 
thus..

(Alternatively, you could use the '=' and '-' keys). This is the 
near-perfect power setting for a healthy break - so let's do it. 
Point to the TAKE SHOT icon and press either mouse button to take 
the shot. (Alternatively, pressing the 'RETURN' key has the same 
effect). The arrow will change to show that the shot is being taken 
and will stay that way until the balls are no longer in motion. The 
cue ball should end up somewhere in the baulk region ..

If the cue ball hit the blue on the way back, that's just bad luck. 
Now let's take that shot again, but with a difference. Point to the 
incon description window and press the left-hand mouse button to 
return the table layout to before the shot (you should hear a 
popping sound too).

Point to the TAKE SHOT icon again and this time press and hold down 
the left- hand mouse button to take the shot. The camera view will 
follow the cue ball and the first ball it hit. Select UNDO and play 
the shot again, this time holding down the right-hand mouse button 
as you play the shot. The camera will now follow the angle of the 
cue ball. Holding down both buttons whle the shot is taken makes the 
camera follow the angle of the first ball hit by the cue ball. Try 
it.

A fourth means of following the shot takes you right into the heart 
of the action. By pointing to the VIEW Q BALL icon and pressing the 
left-hand mouse button while the shot is being played, you can 
follow the cue ball from directly behind. (Alternatively, press and 
hold the 'Q' key or hold down the 'RETURN' key while the shot is 
played).

With a few practice breaks under your belt, let's try potting a ball 
- any ball. How about the yellow in the top corner pocket? First, 
move the brown ball out of the way. Point to the brown ball and 
press the left-hand mouse button. You should be 'taken' to the brown 
ball so that it is now the focus of your attention. Still pointing 
to the brown ball, press and hold down the left-hand mouse button to 
'grab' the brown ball (The arrow should turn into a black hand to 
indicate that the ball is 'grabbed'). Use the mouse to move the 
brown ball out of the way (This method is used to move any ball 
around the table in Trick Shot mode).

Select the VIEW Q BALL icon (or press the 'Q' key) to go to the cue 
ball. To find the yellow ball you need to move the table round a 
bit. Point to the CUE LEFT/CUE RIGHT icon and press the left-hand 
mouse button or use the left and right arrow keys on the keyboard to 
perform the same function.

Alternatively, use the mouse to move the arrow so that it points to 
a clear area of the table. Press and hold down the left-hand mouse 
button (the arrow pointer should have changed shape). Now use the 
mouse to 'draw' a circle around the cue ball and so rotate the 
table. The faster the mouse is moved, the faster the table rotates.

Still holding down the left-hand mouse button, press and hold down 
the right- hand mouse button (the arrow pointer should have changed 
shape again). Now the mouse can be used to turn the table through 
all sorts of angles (The angle vertical adjustment is also available 
in icon from and via the keyboard - ie, the up and down arrow keys).

Release both mouse buttons and press the right-hand mouse button 
while pointing the arrow to a clear area of the table. Moving the 
mouse will take you closer to or further from the table (For further 
details of using the mouse on the table see USING THE MOUSE ON THE 
TABLE). (This function is also available in icon form on the 
vertical panel and via the keyboard - ie, the 'Z' and 'X' keys).

Anyway, back to the yellow ball... With the yellow ball in sight 
'grab' the cue ball and move it slightly further down the table to 
make the shot a little easier to take. To help line up the shot, 
point to the yellow ball and press the left-hand mouse button. This 
will line up the centre of the yellow ball with that of the cue 
ball. Now point to the cue ball and press the right-hand mouse 
button to view the yellow ball again. When lining up a shot it pays 
to make use of the VIEW LINE icon. Point to it and press the 
left-hand mouse button. A single broken view line should appear 
thus..

This view line shows where the shot will send the cue ball. Now you 
can adjust the intended angle of contact between the cue ball and 
the yellow ball by moving the table as before. Happy? Then take the 
shot...

So the yellow didn't go in, eh? Fortunately in Trick Shot mode (and 
Two Player Practice for that matter) you can ask the computer for 
help. Select the VIEW LINE option but press the right-hand mouse 
button instead of the left-hand one. This calls up a double view 
line, the second one showing the angle at which the cue ball will 
rebound from a cushion - provided the shot is a normal one (ie, no 
spin is applied). Now point to the yellow ball and press the 
right-hand mouse button. If it's possible to pot the ball the 
computer will set up the approximate angle and power necessary to do 
so. All you have to do is take the shot. Note that the computer 
doesn't actually check to see if the ball will definitely go in - 
more often than not it does, but it's not guaranteed.

You can also use the computer to find the best available shot, be it 
a safety shot or a pot. Point to the INFORMATION icon and press the 
right-hand mouse button. The computer will think for as long as is 
necessary. When the computer's finished thinking, you can take the 
shot.

So there you have it: you should now appreciate how straightforward 
Jimmy White's Whirlwind Snooker is to play. There's plenty more for 
you to discover - just don't be afraid to experiment (remember the 
UNDO function) and above all have fun!

THE ART OF SPIN AND SWERVE 

It makes sense to plan ahead in Snooker. Setting up the next shot is 
never easy, but it does help to at least know roughly where the cue 
ball will go before the shot's played. This is where spin comes in 
useful.

Select the SET UP TRICK SHOT option if you aren't already using it. 
Point to the 'CLR' icon and press the left-hand mouse button to 
clear the table of every ball but the cue ball. Point to any of the 
balls in the icon panel and press the left-hand mouse button to 
place it in front of the cue ball. Now 'grab' the ball and place it 
in the centre of the table. Use the mouse to point to the colour 
ball with the arrow then press the right-hand mousebutton to line up 
its centre with that of the cue ball. Now point to the cue ball and 
press the right-hand button to return to the cue ball and face the 
colour ball thus..

Now you are ready to learn about SPIN and SWERVE. Take a normal 
shot, ie, simply set the power to something sensible - say, MEDIUM 
POWER - and point to the TAKE SHOT icon and press the left-hand 
mouse button. Note the way that the cue ball pretty much stops in 
its tracks once contact is made with the colour ball. Select UNDO to 
return the table layout to before the shot took place.

TOP SPIN 

Point to the TOP SPIN icon and keep pressing the left-hand mouse 
button until the cross on the TAKE SHOT cue ball icon is at the very 
top, thus setting the top spin to the maximum (Alternatively, press 
the 'U' key). Point to the CHALK CUE icon and apply three dabs of 
chalk with three presses of the mouse button (the flashing icon and 
chalking sounds will show you that the cue tip is being chalked). 
(Pressing the 'C' key has the same effect). Now take the shot.

As you will see, the cue ball does not stop when contact is made 
with the colour ball. Instead the effect is a follow through shot - 
the cue ball follows the ball it strikes.

That's all very well for straight shots - when you get them. What 
about when the cue ball has to hit the colour ball at an angle?

Select UNDO to return the table to the layout before the shot. 
'Grab' the cue ball and move it slightly to the right.

Release the mouse button then point to the VIEW LINE icon and press 
either button to turn on either view line and check that the cue 
ball will hit the colour ball, but at an angle. Now take the shot.

You will see the angle at which the cue ball will leave the colour 
ball once contact is made. Select UNDO then set the top spin to the 
maximum. Apply chalk then take the shot.

With top spin applied, the cue ball still follows to a certain 
extent the ball it struck. Note that top spin is never passed on to 
the balls hit by the cue ball, and that all top spin is removed when 
the cue ball makes contact with a cushion.

BACK SPIN 

With the cue ball lined up with the colour ball, point to the BACK 
SPIN icon and keep pressing the left-hand mouse button until the 
cross on the TAKE SHOT cue ball icon is at the very top, thus 
setting the back spin to maximum (Alternatively, use the 'N' key). 
Chalk the cue 3 timews before taking the shot.

As you will see, the cue ball does not stop when contact is made 
with the colour ball. Instead, the effect is a screw back shot - the 
cue ball seems to rebound from the ball it strikes and shoots off in 
the opposite direction.

And what happens if the cue ball doesn't hit the colour ball 
straight on?  Select UNDO and apply maximum backspin before chalking 
the cue three times and taking the shot..

You can see that the cue ball still screws back to a certain extent 
from the ball it strikes. Note that back spin is never passed on to 
the ballshit by the cue ball, and that all back spin is removed when 
the cue ball makes contact with a cushion.

SIDE SPIN 

A cue ball with side spin applied behaves quite differently to one 
under the influence of top or back spin. Whereas top and back spin 
affect the cue ball one it has struck another ball, side spin really 
comes into effect when the cue ball strikes a cushion. The extent of 
the effect depends on the power of the shot and how long the cue 
ball has been in motion. Note that side spin is never passed on to 
the balls hit by the cue ball.

Use the 'CLR' icon to clear the table as before. Activate the double 
view line and rotate the table so that you face a side cushion and 
the two view lines overlap.

This means that when the shot is taken the cue ball will bounce straight
back in the direction from which it came. Try it, we will now see how 
side spin affects how the cue ball bounces off the cushion.

Point to the SIDE SPIN icon to the right of the cue ball. Keep 
pressing the left-hand mouse button until the cross on the TAKE SHOT 
cue ball icon is as far to the right as possible, thus setting the 
right-hand spin to the maximum (Alternatively, press the 'J' key). 
Chalk the cue three times and take the shot. The cue ball bounces 
off the cushion and to the right. The greater the right-hand spin, 
the further to the right the cue ball rebounds.

Obviously applying left-hand spin (the SIDE SPIN icon to the left of 
the TAKE SHOT icon) sees the cue ball rebounding off to the left. 
Alternatively, you can use the 'H' key for left-hand side spin.

BREAKING OFF IN STYLE!

We have already seen how easy it is to perform a decent break. Now try
taking a break with side spin applied (don't forget to chalk the cue).

SWERVE 

Swerve shots are surprisingly easy to perform - and often prove 
useful. A combination of top or back spin is all that's required. 
The severity of the swerve depends on the degree of spins required 
and the strength of the shot. It also helps if no other ball gets in 
the way of the cue ball.

Clear the table as before. Set the top spin and right-hand spin to 
the maximum. Chalk the cue and take the shot. The swerve to the left 
should easily be in evidence. To make the ball swerve to the right 
simply apply left-hand spin and top spin before chalking the cue and 
taking the shot.

HEAD ON SHOT 

ANGLE SHOT ON TARGET BALL 

A JIMMY TIP

When performing a shot which involves any form of spin, such as a 
swerve shot, don't forget to chalk your cue. Otherwise you may 
miscue and ruin the shot. Three dabs of chalk will always be enough.

THE COMPUTER OPPONENTS 

Here's a quick low-down on the breaks you can expect to see from the 
computer- controlled opponents. It's worth bearing in mind that the 
lower intelligence opponents are more than capable of performing 
fouls and miscues. They have even been known to lose the white to a 
pocket on occasions!

TOM typically makes breaks around the 13 mark.

DICK makes breaks of around 23 points.

HARRY makes breaks of around 45 points.

JIMMY ... Hey! Don't let this man onto the table! When Jimmy gets to 
work you can expect nothing less than 140s! 

Fixed by RYGAR
~~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~