                           SKID ROW presents

                           OPERATION STEALTH

              REFERENCE MANUAL FOR THE CINEMATIQUE SYSTEM

We recommend that you make safety copies of your original disks and use
these when you are playing.

Note: Before you start playing, it is advisable to make sure that you
have a blank formatted disk at hand so that you can save games part way
through.

HOW THE GAME WORKS

You can move the figure that represents you around the screen at will.
All you have to do is make him move is to move the cursor and press the
LEFT mouse button.  The hero will then walk towards the spot you have
chosen.

The figure will stop if an obstacle en route blocks his way.  Choose
another point that will allow him to get round the obstacle.

The Actions Menu

You can carry out numerous and varied actions, by using the hero, even
though the actions menu is very simple.

The actions menu is displayed if you press the RIGHT mouse button.  Move
the menu bar until it highlights the action you desire and press the
mouse button.

The actions activated by the LEFT button are as follows:

EXAMINE: Lets you get more information about an object in your vicinity.
When the cursor changes to a '+', point to the object you want to
examine and press the LEFT mouse button.

TAKE: Use this command when you want to pick up an object which you
think may be useful.  When the cursor changes to a '+', point to the
object you want to pick up and press the LEFT mouse button.

INVENTORY: Shows you the objects you hold.  Press on either mouse button
to quit the inventory.

USE: Lets you use an object you possess, to carry out an action on any
object or person in the vicinity.  When the cursor changes to a '+',
choose the object in the list then click on the object or person you
want to use it on.

ACT: Lets you carry out an action on any object or person.  When the
cursor changes to a '+', point to the object or person to be affected
and press the LEFT mouse button.

SPEAK: You use this to speak to the people you will meet.  When the
cursor changes to a '+', point to the person you wish to speak to and
press the LEFT mouse button.

The actions activated by the RIGHT button are as follows:

EXAMINE: Lets you find out more about an object you possess.  Move the
menu bar until it highlights the chosen object then press the LEFT
mouse button.

USE: Lets you use one object you have, to carry out an action on
another object you have.  Move the menu bar until it highlights the
chosen object then press the LEFT button.

ACT: Lets you carry out an action on an object you have.  Move the
menu bar until it highlights the chosen object then press the LEFT
button.

The User Menu

This menu provides additional functions.  The menu is displayed when
you press on both buttons at the same time.

PAUSE: Stops the game until you press one of the mouse buttons.

RESTART: Allows you to restart the game from the beginning.

DISK DRIVE: Use this to tell the program which disk drive you want
to use for savings games.

LOAD A GAME: If you wish to rename a saved game, when the program
asks you, insert the disk containing your saved games.  The list of
games saved on a disk will be displayed.  Move the cursor to the name
of the game to be loaded and confirm.

SAVE A GAME: To save a game, when the program asks you, insert your
saved game disk.  A list of all the games already on the disk will be
displayed.  Choose an empty space and confirm.  Type in the text box
the name you wish the game to be saved under, and confirm.  If there
is no free space, either use a new disk or save it over an existing
game.

NOTE: As long as your hero is alive, you can save the game.  We
recommend that you use this option frequently, especially if facing
a dangerous situation.  In the course of certain animation sequences,
you cannot guide your figure or save the game.  But don't worry,
nothing really dangerous can happen to you during these sequences,
or if it does, it is already too late to take any action.

Hints

o Examine all the objects in your vicinity.
o Get close to objects to examine them.  No one is infallible and our
  hero cannot see certain details unless he examines them closely.
o Read the comments that are displayed carefully.  They may contain
  clues which may be important later.
o Pick up the greatest number of objects possible.
o Think about all the possible different uses of the objects you possess.
o Act on everything you see.
o Speak to as many people as possible, they may give you a lead.
o Make a copy immediately you sense danger.

If, after all this, you get stuck at a certain point in the game, try
and remember if you have forgotten an object, or if you did not do
something earlier on...

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

AMIGA 500, 1000, 2000, 2000-HD and 2500

(If you are using an AMIGA 500 without extended memory you may have to
unplug the external disk drive.)

o Switch off the computer for at least ten seconds.
o Switch on computer.
o Insert the Kickstart disk in disk drive DF0: if required.
o When the computer prompts you for Workbench, insert game disk No. 1
  in drive DF0:.
o The game will load and run automatically.

Hard Disk Installation

o Check that the number of bytes available on the hard disk is larger
  than that used by the game.
o Create a new directory and copy the contents of each disk into it.

Loading from the Hard Disk

o Double click on the hard disk icon.
o Double click on the icon of the directory that contains the game.
o Double click on the icon DELPHINE.PRG.
o The game will load and run automatically.

KEYBOARD COMMANDS

o The eight arrow keys move the cursor one pixel each time they are
  pressed.
o Pressing SHIFT and an arrow key, moves the cursor rapidly.
o Pressing CTRL and an arrow key, Positions the cursor in the center
  of one of eight squares into which the screen is divided.
o The ESC key functions like the right mouse button.
o Pressing CTRL and the "S" key turns the sound on and off.
o The RETURN, ENTER and "5" key (the central key on the numeric keypad)
  function as the left mouse button.
o You can also use the function keys to directly access the commands
  as follows:

  "F1" EXAMINE                  "F5" ACTIVATE
  "F2" TAKE                     "F6" SPEAK
  "F3" INVENTORY                "F9" The actions menu
  "F4" USE                      "F10" The user menu

o Pressing "P" halts the game until you press the key again.
o Pressing "+" speeds up the animation.
o Pressing "-" slows down the animation.

Moving the Figure:

Keyboard Key  Direction
------------  ---------
 Q            NW
 W            N
 E            NE
 A            W
 S            STOP
 D            E
 Z            SW
 X            S
 C            SE

Moving the Mouse
Numlock key on:

Keypad Key  Direction
----------  ---------
 7          NW
 8          N
 9          NE
 4          W
 5          STOP
 6          E
 1          SW
 2          S
 3          SE

Moving the Mouse
Numlock key off:

Keypad Key  Direction
----------  ---------
 7          NW
 8          N
 9          NE
 4          W
 5          STOP
 6          E
 1          SW
 2          S
 3          SE
 .          User Menu
 0          Actions Menu
 ENTER      CONFIRM

                             INSTRUCTION MANUAL

THE HERO: JOHN GLAMES
---------------------
John Glames has been a member of the CIA, the American secret service,
for the last 7 years.  His pedigree is outstanding, which is why he
has been chosen for numerous dangerous and delicate international
missions.  The mission he is being entrusted with today is of capital
importance, for the diplomatic stability of the world hangs in the
balance.

CONFIDENTIAL REPORT
-------------------
SUBJECT: AGENT DSC 3 - JOHN GLAMES
         CHOSEN FOR THE MISSION
         "OPERATION STEALTH"
BRIEFED: MARCH 1990
Height:  1.85 m
Weight:  75 kgs.
Age:     33

Born in 1957 to an upper middle class family in Vermont, from his
earliest childhood his acute intelligence was remarkable.  He went to
school in his home town where he became a member of the local skiing
and swimming teams.

After having studied at the famous university in Boston, where, as a
member of the swimming team, he established university records for the
1.500 m freestyle and the 200 m butterfly, he was admitted to Westpoint
military academy at the age of 22.

In 1981 DSC 3 spent a year at an American base in Asia.  He put his time
to good use, learning all the techniques of the martial arts, and is
currently a Master of Ninjitsu.  In 1983 he was recruited by our agency
while he was finishing a brilliant Masters degree in chemistry at MIT
(Massachussets Institute of Technology.

He is, therefore, an excellent skier and a very good swimmer (he is
particularly fond of skin diving, which he learned during his stay
in Asia).  His mastery of the techniques of the martial arts makes him
very strong in hand-to-hand combat and very resistant both to effort
and to injury.  His brilliant studies, (he was among the top students
both at MIT and at Westpoint) have made him an expert on armaments,
shooting and chemistry.  He is also infatuated with electronics and is
passionately interested in anything touching upon that area.  DSC 3 is
also a great enthusiast for racing cars and car chases, an area in
which he excels.

His weakness?  Women.....

REPORTS ON HIS PREVIOUS MISSIONS
--------------------------------
Restricted access - Top secret documents.

STEALTH FIGHTER
---------------
MODEL A:

TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS
OF THE STEALTH FIGHTER
------------------------
ARMAMENT:
o Selected targets are located by Laser technology, which guides the
  bombs onto the chosen one.
o Target error factor : 0.001%.
o 2 missiles with nuclear washeads : "Smart bombs".
o Each bomb can destroy a town the size of New York in 10 seconds.

FUEL:

o A mixture of refined aviation fuel, CAT 08 and 34% liquid hydrogen.
o Quantity of fuel : minimum of 300 litres.
o STEALTH Model A is not refuellable in flight.  This option will
  be incorporated in Model B.

OPTION "OZX":

o Jams all radars.  When it is in operation, the Stealth Fighter is
  undetectable.

SPEED

o 3,000 km/h.
o from 0 to 800 km/h in 10 seconds.
o from 800 to 2,500 km/h in 5 seconds : option "ULTRA".
o from 2,500 to 3,000 km/h in 3 seconds : option "HYPER BOOST".

DANGER!  Only use HYPER BOOST option in cases of last resort because
the fuel consumption is enormous.  There is a risk of fuel shortage.

YOUR WEAPONS
------------
1) THE FALSE ATTACHE CASE

The false attache case has a double bottom.

CALCULATOR : DANGER!!!

Never take the calculator far away from the attache case.  The
calculator is linked with the attache case by an infra-red beam.
If you separate the calculator from the attache case, the infra-red
beam is broken, setting off an explosion equivalent to 10 kg of
plastic explosive.  (Serious damage to everything within a radius of
10 meters).

NTY FORGER:

This ultra modern machine is designed to forge passports.  The forger
is in the secret compartment of the attache case and has three programs:

            o false French passport.
            o false British passport.
            o false German passport.

Type in the required code on the calculator to get the NTY FORGER.

a) Use the nationality best suited for the current political situation.

b) Use the arrows on the NTY FORGER to select the nationality you have
   chosen.

c) Press the button to confirm your choice.

NOTE!  This attache case is a new invention of our weapons service.
The director of the service, Professor CARLING is very attached to it.

2) THE WATCH CABLE

This can be an invaluable aid under any circumstances.  An object like
a watch is so ordinary that it would never raise the suspicions of your
enemies, for example:  the Watch Cable was very useful to agent DSC 2
during a chase over the roofs in HONG-KONG in the course of his last
mission.

THE CHASE IN HONG KONG
----------------------
After stealing documents from the Chinese secret services building in
HONG-KONG, agent DSC 2 was spotted by the security services of the
building.  After a wild chase, DSC 2 found himself on the roof of the
building.  The enemy was at his heels.  There was another building
facing DSC 2.  He used the cable option on his watch and was thus able
to escape from his pursuers.

o Maximum length of cable : 30 m.
o Maximum weight the cable will support : 100 kgs.
o The cable plays out in 10 seconds.

3) THE CUTTING PEN

Just like the watch, an ordinary pen will never awaken the suspicions
of your enemies.  The cutting pen looks like an ordinary fountain pen.
It is special because it contains a pressurized capsule of benzoic
acid.  When the swivel ring on the pen body is turned through 180
degrees, the benzoic acid capsule depressurizes and lets drops of benzoic
acid fall from the nib of the pen.

PROPERTIES OF BENZOIC ACID:

DISSOLVES ALL     AMOUNT OF ACID
   METALS             NEEDED

   STEEL              3 drops
   IRON               2 drops
   GOLD              10 drops
 MANGANESE            5 drops
 TUNGSTEN             1 drop
 PLATINUM             8 drops
   LEAD              12 drops
  COPPER              2 drops

SWIVEL RING

Use the prescribed number of drops.  If you exceed the dose the vapours
given off by the chemical reaction could suffocate you.

NOTE:  The cutting pen was used successfully by agent DSC 1 to escape
from the ALMADENA prison.

4) THE RECORDING RAZOR

Recorder Option:

a) Make sure the razor contains a blank micro cassette.  To do this,
   first press the Eject button.  You will find the micro cassette
   located towards the upper rear portion of the razor.  Make sure the
   cassette has been rewound.

b) Replace the cassette.

c) To record a conversation : switch the On/Off switch to the On position.

d) The shaving heads will now function as very powerful microphones,
   capable of recording any conversation within a radius of 20 meters
   of the razor.

e) When the razor is recording : the indicator light is green.  When
   the razor is not recording : the indicator light is red.

f) When the cassette is full, the razor rewinds it automatically.  When
   the cassette has been rewound, the indicator light changes to red.

o Recording time of the micro cassette : 30 minutes.

5) THE SAFE - CRACKING BOX

Allows you to find the combination of any safe.  This box was dreamed
up by world famous burglar known as "The Cracker".  When he was caught
by agent DSC 3, this mastermind of burglary told us all of his secrets.

With his help, Professor CARLING perfected the Code-Breaking Box.  Let it
be said that Professor CARLING added his own personal touches so as to
improve on the ideas of "The Cracker".

HOW TO USE THE CODE - BREAKING BOX

a) Place the box on the safe.

b) Press the On/Off button.

c) Slowly turn the tumbler of the safe.

d) The numbers in the code will be shown on the number display in the
   same order as they occur in the combination lock.

e) Recompose the code in the same order as that shown on the number
   display of the box and the safe will open.

WARNING!

The Code-Breaking Box is powered by two batteries containing enriched
mercury.  This substance allows it to sense all of the infinitesmal
variations in sound.  That is why it is used in the box.  The
disadvantage of enriched mercury is that it does not last very long when
in use.  You must act quickly.

6) THE CIGARETTE CASE

This cigarette case contains two types of cigarettes.

A) Rocket launching cigarettes.

B) Finger print revealing cigarettes.

A) ROCKET LAUNCHING CIGARETTES

This cigarette contains a rocket near the filter.  The rocket is linked
to a heat sensor at the end of the cigarette by a minute thread.  When
the cigarette is lit, the thread burns and launches the rocket.

Characteristics of the Rocket:

o Length : 3 cm.
o Range : 25 m.
o Hit Rate : at 5 m - 100%.
             at 10 m - 95%.
             at 15 m - 92.5%.
             at 20 m - 90%.
             at 25 m - 87.5%.
o It can destroy an object the size of a car.

B) FINGER PRINT REVEALING CIGARETTES

The cigarette contains an ultra-sensitive micro-film made of CrO2.
With this micro-film, you can photograph any finger print.  All you
have to do is to place the micro-film on the spot where you have
found the finger print.  The computerized database research unit can
then identify the owner of the finger print you have photographed.

THE SUSPECTS
------------
SUSPECT No. 1 - GENERAL MANIGUA

He was democratically elected by the Paraguayan people three years ago.

At that time, he was adored by his fellow countrymen.  He had thwarted
a military junta that threatened to sieze power.  General MANIGUA was
not known then as General but as President MANIGUA.

He had never been a military man, but had studied sociology at Harvard.
Unfortunately, he has changed a lot since he came to power, but we do
not know the reasons why.

A year ago he assumed the title of General and dissolved the People's
Assembly, making himself dictator.

The country is now in a state of siege.  Even his own family no longer
recognize the good President MANIGUA.  Freedom of speech has disappeared
in SANTA PARAGUA.  No one dare voice any opposition.  General MANIGUA
has surrounded himself with a terrifying secret police force which is
ruthlessly efficient in its repression of political opponents.

It is under these circumstances that a resistance group called LIBERTAD
has been formed.

This group struggles in secret against the dictatorship.  According to
them, MANIGUA is only the puppet of an international crime syndicate.
However, opinions are divided in the group.  Other members believe
that MANIGUA rules the country with a rod of iron by himself.

Since General MANIGUA plunged the country into a dictatorship, we have
ceased to support him.

We are now supplying LIBERTAD with arms to fight MANIGUA's secret police,
making us MANIGUA's enemy No. 1, for without our arms supplies, the
local resistance would be incapable of fighting.

We are sending you to SANTA PARAGUA immediately because agent DSC 2,
who has been on a mission there for the last six months, has sent this
worrying telex:

"IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE STEALTH AFFAIR.  STOP.  I NEED URGENT
HELP.  STOP."

It is therefore probable that MANIGUA is implicated, either directly
or indirectly, in the theft of our STEALTH.  We do not know, however,
if he planned the whole affair, or whether he was callaborating with
a foreign power.

SUSPECT No. 2 THE U.S.S.R. (The KGB)

Over the last few years our relations with the Soviet Union have
improved considerably.

We have jointly signed several treaties in such areas as disarmament
and trade.  The present leaders of the Soviet Union seem to be looking
for dialogue.

However, in the heart of the Supreme Soviet there are extremist
elements who advocate the destruction of capitalism and war with the
United States.  We also know that Soviet scientists have been working
for the last two years on an aviation project similar to STEALTH.  The
man in charge of the project, Professor LUKASIEWICZ, fled the U.S.S.R.
and sought asylum in West Germany.  Since he left, the project has
been frozen.  It could be that the Soviets, unsettled by our progress
on the Stealth project, have stolen our technological jewel to copy it.

Did they act in collaboration with General MANIGUA?

We have no clues.

Your air ticket.  Destination : SANTA PARAGUA.

SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW


