                THE COMPLETE OPERATION STEALTH SOLUTION

By THE POWERSLAVES and TIGER2XLC / WINTER MUTE. Edited by PARASITE.


Check the News Paper machine. Examine the return slot, use the coin to buy
a news paper. Read it and notice what country it says in the last line.
(the country making relations with Santa Paragua). Go to the toilet and
open your Briefcase (Operate Briefcase). Operate the calculator. You are
now in the secret room. Use the unused passport on the opening in the
passport machine. Adjust the machine to what country it said in the
newspaper. You are now able to get pass the costume officer. Speak to the
welcome hostess. She gives you a telegram. Read the telegram, it will give
you information on what suitcase to pick up. Go to the toilet and open the
suitcase. Take the razor and connect it to the power connection to get some
high voltage on it. You will be told to meet your agent at the Las Mimosas
park... (To make yourself clear to him, you have to wear a red carnation).
Take the pen and the bench of Marks out of your briefcase and search for
the taxi (outside the building).

The taxi will bring you to the city. In the city go to the bank and
exchange your money for coins. Now walk to the flower shop and offer the
florist your coins. Take the red carnations and go to the Las Mimosas Park.
Use the red carnations on John (that's you) and take a sit on the bank.
Your friend will contact you, but he gets shot. Before he dies he will give
you a paper with a key and a number on it. Now get away, otherwise you get
arrested.

Visit the bank again and exchange all your money for coins. Examine the
paper with the key and keep the number on it in mind. Give the paper with
the key to the bankteller and he will give you access to the safe's under
the bank. (he gives you only your key back). Find the safe with the number
on the paper and open it. You will find a briefcase with an envolope and a
little box  in it's secret room. Take the little box. Examening the
envolope makes clear that it contains the documents about the missing
Stealth.

After Karpov and his assistant blow up the entrance of the cave examine the
ground and operate it. You will find a sharp piece of metal. Use the cords
on it and freedom is yours. Now take a closer look on the piece of metal
and after operating it, it appears to be a pickaxe. Operate the pickaxe on
the wall near the rocks (at the right) and a hole will appear. Enter it.
Now you get an arcade sequence. After completing this sequence you're back
again in the city.

Go to the beach and buy a bracelet from the Turk. Enter the hotel and go to
your room (3th floor at the right). Watch closely what's happening. At the
boat operate your bracelet. After you are dumped in the sea operate the
bracelet once again to free yourself. Free the lady (this has to be done
quickly). Another sequence will appear followed by another arcade sequence.

After this arcade sequence enter the room you've found. You will find a
statue in it. Examine it carefully and you will find that his arm is a
switch to reveal a safe! Use the little box on the safe and operate the
button on it. Crack the safe with it and remove it again. In the safe you
will find the envolope again. Suddenly, (those Russians again).

After completing the arcade sequence you get another mission from your boss
to 'destroy the Stealth's brain'.

First go to the forth or fifth screen from the entrance described below
(bottom of ocean). Then examine seaweed twice (over rotton wood) and you
will get the elastic band. (You need this). Swim to the most right and go
down. You will find an closed entrance in the rocks. Examine the trunk of
the palm (at the left of the entrance) and you will find a switch. Press it
and get into the entrance.

Open the sluice and you will be caught again. This time you are the food of
some piranhas. In the cage use the pen on the lock on the cage door.
Operate your watch on the wall to your left and to your right and you end
up with a BATMAN like scene. With a cord streached out in front of you. Go
to the grill on the right and operate it. You then get to solve the Final
arcade sequence (crawling round pipes and avoiding rats. Get the wrench and
find the next porthole. There are four of them).

You end up in a bathroom with a guy brushing his teeth. Sneak up against
the showers and get close, then OPERATE SOLDIER you will then beat him up.
Take the cup off the sink. Examine the boots and use the laces to tie him
up! Take the napkin and stuff it in his mouth! Use napkin on soldier! Put
on the suit and boots, then leave the room. DO NOT GO TO YOUR RIGHT, go
FORWARD! Go to the first room you see - its a storeroom.

Operate the drawers until you find some new laces and put them on your
boots. You also get a Blank Stamp (use this later to get a real stamp),
then go to the next room to your right, its a computer room. First examine
the clothes and get the mission instructions. Get the rubber raft out of
the garbage (operate garbage). Take your glass and fill it with good water.
now go back to where you came out of the bathroom and go to the next
screen.

An officer will tell you to get him some water (you should have it). Now
you will be able to get in the door next to the bathroom (this is the
officers room). Give him the water and take the stamp on his desk when he
is drinking (you must do this fast) and you will switch the blank stamp
with the one on his desk!

Now go back to the computer room. There will now be an ink pad on the
console (look for it, on the right part of console). Now operate your
cigarette case and you will have 4 cigarettes. They are in order given;

1.....blue band...(fingerprint)
2.....gold........normal
3.....gold........normal
4.....red.........heat seeking explosive!

First operate the first cigarette (blue band) and use the paper left over
on the glass. This will give you a perfect fingerprint of the officer.
Then examine case - its a stamp pad. Use the stamp pad and ink pad together
and then stamp the stolen stamp on the pads. Then use the freshly inked
stamp on the mission instructions. They are now authorized instructions.

Go to the place where the officer told you to get him some water and
you'll see a door that needs fingerprint ID to open it. Simply use the
fingerprint on the fingerprint ID machine and the door will open! Go
through the hall and to the lazer room. Use the authorized mission on the
mailbox and the guy will let you through!

When you get in the next hall you'll find a trashcan and an electric plug.
Plug in your razor, turn it on and place it in the trash.(this stuff will
help yoy later). Go to the next room, the control room, with Dr. Why and
his assistant Otto. Dr Why will tell you a story, so just listen. When your
razor starts messing (?) with them, quickly use the red cigarette on the
computer on the right. As soon as the cigarette explodes do an OPERATE
Otto, and beat him up. Now put the CD in the player and get out fast!

Run to the door on the top left, then go to the right. You are then in a
room with a helicopter. Run to it. You and the girl will grab the bottom of
the helicopter and the island explodes beneath you.

Its not over yet, as he has a bomb. Take the elastic band and use it on the
bomb on the bottom  of the helicopter. When you fall quickly operate the
rubber raft. Dr. Why and his helicopter will explode.

The game ends and your a winner!
