                             KILLING CLOUD TIPS

Typed by SIDEWINDER of LSD.


MISSION 1.
This mission is by far the easiest of all to complete, hence the reason its
the first.  As you'll know from reading the briefing you've got to capture
the Surveillance droid that carries vital information about the Black
Angel's organisation.
Unfortunately, there are three droids and you don't know which one holds the
information.  Luckily though, there is a way to distinguish between them.
Once you've found your way to either Nob Hill or Chinatown and you've armed
a net, zoom in on the radar.  The colour of the dots will alter very
slightly, the vital droid being a brighter red than the other two useless
droids.  You can now trace the droid easily.
When you fire your net try to be flying in a similar direction.  Never fire
a net if you think the droid may turn or move behind a building.  Just
because the sights have locked on to the enemy, doesn't guarantee a
successful shot, so keep the lock on until the droid is captured.

MISSION 2.
If you thought the first mission was hard you'll find this even more
difficult as the Black Angels are now firing back.  The best tactic here is
to destroy Grenco's accomplice.  This leaves Grenco without any backup and
once you've caught him, the PUP will not be threatened on its return journey
to the station house.
As with Mission 1, use the coloured dots on the radar to help you
differentiate between the important targets.
Try if possible to avoid killing Grenco, as his information may prove vital
if you're to prove instrumental in the downfall of the Black Angels.

MISSION 3
EXACTLY THE SAME AS MISSION 2

MISSION 4
1 NET 1 PUP    BLAT THE 3 ANGEL BIKES NET THE SUSPECT IN MID AIR  (BLACK 
BIKE). AND FOLLOW HIM DOWN, ARREST HIM, REFER TO 1.2

MISSION 5
THIS IS A BASTARD  YOU ONLY GET 120 SECONDS TO FIND THE BOMB (STATION 
HOUSE 3 ALWAYS THERE ) AND CHUCK THE THING IN THE SEA.  BLOODY HARD. 
YOUR GOING TO HAVE TO DO THIS YOURSELF I FINALLY DID IT. WITH
3 SECONDS TO SPARE.

BEGINNER'S TIPS
The first thing you must master when playing the Killing Cloud is the
awkward controls and sensations of the hoverbike.  Try and get used to
flying and weaving in and out of buildings.  Until you have mastered
controls you'll never be able to chase and capture the bikes flown by the
Black Angels.
When you leave the station house, zoom out of the radar immediately so you
can visualise exactly where you're heading.
Flying beneath the cloud is dangerous, so always lower your speed before
entering the cloud and go in gradually.  Never attempt to capture an enemy
in the cloud, as you'll be literally stabbing in the dark
The placing of safety nets and PUPs is vital if the mission is to be a
success.  An idea is to place the nets at a safe distance from the troubled
area.  This allows you to pick them up without any aggrevation from lurking
Black Angels.
PUPs only have a limited radio signal, so it's best to place them in the
middle of a town so you've more chance of being close to an arrested
suspect.
Remember that at the end of a mission your nets and PUPs are NOT re-
supplied, so you'll only have one for each of all 10 missions.

The SFPD XB500 hoverbike is your only true friend when you're out there
searching through the smog.  Keep it fuelled up and fully armed.

The Black Angel's surveilance pods are more a nuisance than a threat and
must be captured for information.

The Black Angel's custom bikes.  Having been stolen from the SFPD and then
modified these enemy bikes are more manoeuvrable, and much swifter than your
vehicle.

On the first level, all the action will take place on Nob Hill, so make sure
you deploy your backup to this location.  Fly to the location above the
cloud level, scanning any movement using your radar.  Only dive beneath the
cloud when you are practically on top of your target.  Quickly get hold of
the net pod and then capture the droid when he isn't moving.

When deploying your backup, bear in mind that you have only ten of both the
nets and PUPs.  Try to deploy one of each to cover each mission and make
sure they don't get blown up by any hostile activity.

Under the cloud make good uyse of your radar to track any movement.  Fly
slowly and keep your eyes peeled!  Try to hug the ground, and if you get any
hassle from a trigger happy Black Angel, use the buildings as cover.

At the armoury, the life support system is a definate must.  The extra fuel
tank is also advised.  The cannon is best but the machine guns are adequate.
Judge your equipment by its weight, remember it will effect performance.

You'll probably find that your best method of navigation is to follow the
roads and streets around the city.  Doing this will help prevent you from
getting lost!  It is very easy to forget about the different levels of radar
magnification.

Steve Grenco is your main target when you attack the second level.  Your
object is to apprehend his hoverbike.

Angel flight patterns are sporodic - hit 'em when they stop!  Don't get too
close as an unopened net missile can destroy them.

Angel bikes will come in pairs, the more familiar bike is usually the
guardian.  The less active of the pair is invariably the suspect.

Guard the PUP as the Black Angels will invariably attempt to shoot it down
in order to rescue their comrades.

When interrogating a suspect you're going to have to start bribing him by
offering to take years off his sentance.  Only remove one or two years at a
time, and he should tell you everything you need to know.  Don't overdo it
though or you'll have to set him free, and you'll lose your job.

SOME MISSION CODES

NOTE: There appear to be various codes for each mission;

MISSION 1.      N/A
MISSION 2.      A66TG7EZ
MISSION 3.      2WWTQ7E3
MISSION 4.      QXX6G6EB
MISSION 5.      3336RWE3

Fin.
