                    Solve for : Shadow of the Beast

                     Presented by the Accumulators!

                Written by The ACE!!! and Innocent Exile
                  Thanks to Scott for some assistance

            P.S. The Paranoimia version is NOT messed up!
             We used it to solve it! You simply must kill
            the large monsters, instead of trying to walk
                           through them!

1.  Load the (TRAINED version of) the game.
2.  After you start the game, go to the left and enter the tree   
    with the red arrows flashing into it.
3.  Go to the right and go down the first ladder.
4.  Go to the left and go down the first ladder you come to.
5.  Go to the right past the green spider like monsters and climb 
    down the ladder.
6.  Go left and down the ladder and go left across the bridge.
7.  Go down the ladder and go to the right past the purple   
    monsters.
8.  Go down the ladder than go down the right ladder.
9.  Go down the first bamboo ladder and than go left and down the 
    next bamboo ladder and go left halfway down (At the first   
    landing.)
10. Go to the left past more purple monsters (Rain drops keep    
    falling on my head...) and jump over the pit. Grab the Key.
11. Fall into the pit. Go to the right. Go all the way up the    
    bamboo ladder. If you missed the key, go left halfway up the 
    bamboo ladder and go back and get it.
12. Go back up both bamboo ladders, than up the wooden ladder,   
    than left and down the next ladder. 
13. Go left through more purple monsters, and you will reach a   
    winged statue throwing a ball in the air. Punch the ball
    until it blows up. You now have a new weapon.
14. Go all the way to the right, and enter the transporter (Looks
    kinda like a bird cage). Than go up the wooden ladder, than  
    go to the right. The game should load briefly here.
15. Once you reach a large monster (It look like an electric    
    chair with teeth) just start firing until it dies.
16. Go to the right and kill the green monsters, and go up the
    first ladder you come to. Than go all the way to the left,   
    and you'll find some green monsters. Kill them. You'll soon  
    reach a switch that says "Don't Touch". Punch the switch     
    once. Than go to the right and go up the first ladder you   
    come to. 
17. Go to the left, through the bouncing eyeballs, until you find
    a key. Go back to the right through the eyeballs. Go down the
    first ladder you come to. Go to the right. Go down the first 
    ladder you come to.
18. Go to the right and go past the snail and go all the way down
    the ladder. Go to the left through the red dragons and go    
    through the bouncing Psygnosis symbols, than go down the    
    ladder. Go to the right.
19. Go down the ladder, go to the right, and continue going to   
    right through all the red skulls and wasps. The game will
    load briefly again. Than go down the ladder. Go to the right.
    than go down another ladder. Than go to the left. Continue 
    going to the left and go down the first ladder you come to.
    And than go left and down another ladder. Go to the left. 
    Go up the next ladder, left and down the next ladder. Than
    up the next ladder, go to the right, and pick up the vial
    which will give you 'Power Punch'.
20. Go to the left and go all the way down the ladder. Go to the 
    right under the rocket engines. Continue all the way to the 
    right until you come to a large red monster. Start punching
    it until it dies. Than go to the right and enter the door,   
    and climb up the ladder. The game will load again, and you'll
    be back near where you started. Go right. When you get to a  
    statue, punch it until it comes to life, than kill it. Than
    continue to the right, past the castle entrance, and jump up 
    and grab the torch. Than go left and enter the castle.
21. Go left once you enter the castle and up the first ladder.
    Than go all the way to the right and down the ladder. Than to
    the right, and all the way up the next ladder. Than to the
    left and walk off the edge. Continue to the left through the
    daggers and through the green monsters until you some to a
    dead-end. Than go up the ladder. The game will load briefly
    here. Go to the right through a bunch of knifed monsters.
    Continue to the right until you reach a dead-end. Than pick
    up the wrench and go back to the left past the table until
    you reach a dead-end. Go down the ladder. Go to the right
    until you reach another dead-end. Go down the ladder. Go to
    the right, walk off the edge, and than go to the left, across
    a bridge and under some spiders. Go down the ladder at the
    dead-end. Go to the right, through the head-less jumping
    monsters, and down the ladder by the dead-end. Go to the
    left across the bridges. You'll come to a treasure chest. 
    Bend down and punch it and pick up the gun. Than go back to
    the right. When you reach the machine where the lightning
    is, bend down and press the fire-button in front of the 
    machine. This should turn the lightning off. Than go to the
    right and up the ladder. Than go to the left, and walk off 
    the edge. Continue to the left and go up the ladder. The game
    will load briefly here. Go to the right, and go down the
    ladder at the dead-end. Go to the left, through the flying
    torpedoes and go down the ladder at the dead-end. Half-way
    down the ladder the game will load again. Go to the right,
    and you will reach a green three-headed dragon. Go all the
    way up against the dragon, as far to the right as possible,
    and start shooting until it dies. Than go through the door on
    the right. After the game finishes loading and you are given
    your space suit, go straight to the right all the way until the
    floor totally disappears. Continue to the right until you
    reach and than destroy BOTH of the monster's mouth's. This
    will kill it. Than go to the right through the door-way.
    You will appear outside the castle in the graveyard. Go all
    the way to the right and punch the giant's big toe until he
    dies, Yipeee! You won. (And I can stop typing!)  
    

 Now that you've finished this great game, call these ACC boards:

  Realm of Imposibility      Bloom County          Damage Inc.
    214 - 333 - 4528       602 - 843 - 8261        (Back Soon)

                            Crystal Palace
                            (31) 297530299

 All are HST only, etc. etc. etc.

                               ©1989 ACC
