                                  OBLITERATOR

Taken from AMIGA GAME docs disk #2. Typed in by HEOPS VON TOT & JPR.
Edited by Parasite. Re-edited by DrBong!


IS THIS THE LAST MISSION FOR THE LAST OBLITERATOR?

  Your personal communicator beeps. A summons. The Federation Council of 
Elders wants you and they want you now. No time to pack- a Nuclonic 
interstellar shuttle is on its way to collect you the last time this 
happened it took them three months to put your body back together again. You
shudder- the adrenalin is pumping. You're tough, you're mean and you're 
ready for action- but what's in store?
 
  Something big is about to break- (your Amiga or ST!)- the star fleet was on
alert for days- then one morning it was gone, the whole fleet and no one 
knows where. The top brass have been running around with stark terror on
their faces- no one knows why. And they are going to tell you- the last of 
the Obliterators. Why? During the last war you and the unit...you were 
heroes- wherever the fighting was the hottest and the bloodiest who did they
send? the Obliterators of course! The most highly trained elite fighting 
force ever assembled; each one recruited at birth from amongst the population
of billions in Federation space; each one intensively trained and educated 
from childhood. Each one with an genetic ally enhanced body to speed up 
reflexes, enhance the senses and increase strength and agility. Always the 
Obliterator mission is suicidal, always a last attempt to rescue impossible 
situations against impossible odds. And always-incredibly- you survived. But
the clone wars were eight years ago, and since then the Obliterators have 
only been called to undertake the occasional suicide mission- but you always
came back and that's why you're the only Obliterator left. And that's why 
they want you! 
   
  The briefing is over and you have orders. it's hard to believe that the
summons came less than four hours ago- now you're three million parsecs away,
about to enter into the most dangerous situation of your life- and you're
alone. With all else failed the Elders had to call on you-and what they told
you was beyond belief. The entire Federation Star Fleet had been
destroyed by a single Alien Spaceship- but what a Spaceship! For centuries
the Federation had been the most powerful force in the galaxy. Ever
expanding outward, colonising new worlds and absorbingold alien
cultures. More than a thousand worlds knew and enjoyed the Federation's law
and order. But all this was not without cost. Expansion inwards
towards the galaxy's core revealed many old civilizations some of which
were both unwilling to join the federation and technologically
superior. Federation attempts to coerce these Aliens into joining them
had many enemies. Now these enemies have banned together to construct a
seemingly indestructible craft- and they are hell bent on revenge.
Enormous in size and apparently invulnerable this craft is heading
straight into the center of Federation Space. Its apparent mission- the
destruction of the Federation homeworld-Earth. The Starfleet never
stood a chance. The alien ships anti-matter screens deflected everything
they threw at it with a scornful ease, and then it simply removed the fleet
from existence with its main weapons. The technology is awesome. The Elders
plan is simple. There exist a prototype matter transporter, the
latest thing in interstellar travel. It has two problems-no living creature
has yet used it and the immense power needed to transport an object as
complex as a human being. There is though, enough power to put one person
aboard an alien craft and the Elders have given you the honor. And how
about this for a mission- the Elders only want you to disable the Plasma
drive engines- bring down its battle shield and disable the main weapons
system. That should give the Fed erations few remaining strike craft a
chance to destroy the cruiser- but that's just for starters. The Fed
eration also need information on the alien ship. Any alien computer
datapacks must be recovered- the information they contain is vital.
Which means they expect you to somehow survive and escape before they destroy
the ship. Now the mission begins. Luckily it worked-your body was broken
down into elemental parts, then beamed aboard the alien spacecraft out in
deep space where it had been re-assembled- not a pleasant experience.
But everything seems to be in the right place and in working order. The
environment is strange but the atmosphere breathable. All seems
menacing. From the limited intell igence the Federation scanners were
able to pick up, you know that this craft is crewed with a mixture of
androids, robots and the worst kind of bad guy aliens you could possibly hope
to meet. With luck you should be able to disable equipment and machinery by
removing vital components. But your first priority must be to survive-you
were able to bring a limited arsenal with you-to stay alive you'll have to
live by your wits-steal what weapons and ammunition you can-learn as you go
and kill. You must kill every alien you come across and create as much
havoc and confusion as possible- and, once you've completed your objectives
the elders expect you to escape with the information they so desperately
need- nothing must stop you, nothing must get in your way, the mission is
all important. Only one thing can save the Federation now- YOU! 


  Within the alien space craft you control our hero 'Drak'. Once the game
task started you will materialize somewhere in the rear of the alien
space craft and in order to complete the game YOU MUST FIND AND REMOVE the
vital components (look at the panel below)!. Whilst completing these tasks 
you will be confronted by various creatures and contraptions which you must
destroy to earn points. Once all five tasks have been completed the score
will COUNT DOWN (the border colour will now be slightly blue) until it
reaches zero at which point the federation fighters will attack. If you are
successful your score is your remaining points. 

  During gameplay weapons may be discovered which may be used in
exactly the same manner as the pistol which you always have. Its projectiles
are slow and fairly ineffective. Drak is equipped with a personal shield
which protects him from most alien weapons but which degenerates whilst
in use. Shield-Regenerators may be found at various points, to activate
simply walk into them as you would a doorway.
 
  The Game may be controlled from the keyboard, by the mouse or a joystick
in any combination although fine control of weapons firing requires the
mouse. The following keys may be pressed at any time during play to
issue commands:

 
   Arrow keys .....left, right , up , down at the next opportunity.
   H or F1 Halt (stop) 
   Return or F2 Go into at next opportunity. 
   J or F3 Jump
   S or F4 Shoot 
   D or F5 Defend 
   A or F6 Action (depends on context) 
   <Space Bar>  Switch to alternate Strip
   Esc ....Pause 
   Help....Game Options


Control Icons.

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| LEFT | UP/DOWN | RIGHT | HALT | INTO | JUMP | SHOOT | DEFEND | ACTION |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+


LEFT    Move left if facing left or else turn to face left.
UP      Move up at the next available opportunity.
DOWN    Move down at the next available opportunity.
RIGHT   Move right if facing right or else turn to face right.
HALT    Halt or stop all movement.
INTO    Walk into the next doorway or Shield regenerator.
SHOOT   Stop and fire weapon.
DEFEND  Take a defensive action.
ACTION  Pick up an object / remove a component / insert a component


+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| PISTOL | BLASTER | ENGINE  | SHUTTLE | DATA |     PERSONAL SHIELD     |
+---------------------------------------      --------------------------+
| RIFLE  | BAZOOKA | SHIELDS | WEAPONS | PACK |          SCORE          |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+


PISTOL   Click here to use the pistol. The numerals are the ammunition left.
RIFLE    Click here to use the rifle. The numerals are the ammunition left.
BAZOOKA  Click here to use the bazooka. The numerals are the ammunition left.
ENGINE   Appears when you are in possession of the engine component.
SHIELDS  Appears when you are in possession of the shields component.
WEAPONS  Appears when you are in possession of the weapons component.
SHUTTLE  Appears when you are in possession of the shuttle component.
DATAPACK Appears when you are in possession of the computer datapack.
SHIELD   A bar which decreases as your personal shield fails.
SCORE    Your current score.


Weapons.

PISTOL       You always have this weapon. Its projectiles are slow & fairly
             ineffective.

AMMUNITION   Picking up ammunition adds 15 projectiles to your store to a
             maximum of 50.

RIFLE        It's projectiles are fast and powerful but do not penetrate 
             many metals.

BLASTER      Although the its projectiles are slow it will destroy anything.

BLASTER      Picking it up adds 5 projectiles to your store to a maximum of
AMMUNITION   10.

BAZOOKA      This is the only weapon capable of penetrating any material.

BAZOOKA      Picking it up adds 2 projectiles to your store to a maximum of
AMMUNITION   3.



Personal Shield.

Drak is equipped with a personal energy shield which protects him from most
alien weapons, but which degenerates whilst in use. Shield-Regenerators may
be found at varoius points throughout the alien craft. To activate simply
walk into them as you would a doorway. Drak's personal energy shield will be
repaired. 