MICROPROSE GOLF MANUAL page 5-50

In medieval times, shepherds passed the time while watching their sheep by hitting
pebbles around the hills and meadows with their crooks, so inventing Golf

It is almost possible to picture a similar scene in the same fields today; the
descendants of those shepherds sitting on a wall, lap-top computer at the ready,
playing MicroProse Golf One of the oldest sports seems to have become a natural
companion for new technology.

There are several computer golf games available, some of which have filled a few
lunch hours at MicroProse. But none of them have kept us playing them time and
again. We've always found them to be missing two fundamental requirements.

Firstly, they are all two-dimensional. Secondly, and partly as a result of their being 2-d,
The true effects on the ball of changing parameters such as club, swing, stance and
ball-spin cannot be accurately seen. The means by which you measure your success
are via shot distances calculated by the computer and then printed on screen, not by
making the journey with the ball.

We wanted an accurate simulation which not only provided hours of entertainment, but
actually improved our own golfing ability, both in terms of understanding ball dynamics
at first hand and by teaching us about the tactics of golf To master your environment
you have to have free range of movement around iL

So the idea for MicroProse Golf was born. Its completion has been an immense
challenge. Those who love and play golf know about the challenges faced in playing
the most difficult shot on the most testing course. The thrill is greatest when it is
achieved through skill, appilcation, and as the result of many hours practice.

We hope that MicroProse Golf provides you with the challenges and thrills that it has
given us.


MicroProse

July 1991

                                  Page 5

THIS MANUAL
provides a Quickstart for beginners, detailed operating instructions, and a wide
variety of technical background. It is applicable to all computer systems.

THE TECHNICAL SUPPLEMENT
gives specific instructions for loading and/or installing the simulation for your
computer. It also provides a complete reference of all the graphics and keys
used in the game.

THE COURSE MAPS AND CLUB SELECTION CARDS
provide you with additional information about the courses included in the game
and about each club's attributes.

THE QUICKSTART TUTORIAL
is the best way to play the game for the first time. Once you have played a few
holes of Master Golf you will quickly become familiar with the controls and how
to use them.

UNDERSTANDING THE OPTIONS
You will probably want to play competitively so as to judge one round against
another, or to judge your ability against a friend's or a computerised
opponent's. There are many different types of competition to choose from, all
clearly explained in "The Main Menu" (page 23) and "Handicaps and
Competitions" (page 27).

Everything ydu need to know about setting up player profiles prior to a playing
round can be found in the "Player Set-Up" section, starting on page 35.

Once you've chosen your options, it's off to the first tee!

                                  Page 7

DEVELOPING YOUR GAME
Once you have used the Quickstart to learn the basics of the game interface
you will be ready to start giving more consideration to the effect that changing
variables have on your game. The section "Developing your game" gives
further explanation of the various elements which make up your game, and
relates what you see on screen to what you might experience on an actual golf
course. You'll be surprised at how close the two are!

PLAYING THE COURSE
Each of the clubs is analysed in detail, giving you hints and tips about how to
get the best out of them across a variety of situations, and explaining the
mechanics and effects of changing foot, ball and tee positions.

ADVANCED PLAY
Understanding strategic play can be done right from the start. You'll save a lot
of wasted time in the rough by learning how to read the course and, for the low
handicap player who wants to win tournaments, there's top tips for tough
situations.

VITAL STATISTICS
A section to help you get the best from the range of statistical services offered
by MicroProse Golf.

                                  Page 8

Install and/or load the game as explained in the Technical Supplement.

Once the game has loaded, the Main Options Menu will appear. Move the on-
screen pointer over the "New Round" option and click the left mouse button
once. This is the method you should use whenever selecting an option from a
menu. The Competition Menu will then appear, from which you should select
"Medal".

Then select the number of players who wish to learn the game. For example, if
you are learning alone, select "One Player".

You will then be invited to configure the players via the screen shown.

Each player may be given a name, be controlled by
human or computer and be left or right handed. Each
player starts at novice level. For the purposes of the
Quickstart, simply click on the "Begin Round" icon which
looks like this;

Each player will be
given a default name
of "Player 1, 2 etc.",
and will be a right-handed human designated as a
"Novice" player. A full explanation of how to change a
player's configuration is given on page 35.

You will then be asked to "Insert a Course Disk". There are two course disks
supplied with the simulation, Course Disks A & B. Course Disk A holds the
"Buckland Heath", "Mountsummer Point" and "Fairdale Park" courses, and Disk
B holds the "Fenham Valley", "Ballybrook" and "St. Augustine" courses.

                                  Page 9

Insert Course Disk A and select "Buckland Heath" from the Courses menu. A
message will appear showing the first hole number, par, distance, stroke index
and green speed. Click the left mouse button and the first hole will appear in
isometric view.

The isometric map shows
the hole which you are
about to play and its nearest
neighbouring hole. The
green to which you are
playing can be identified by
the red flag, and the
position of the tee by the
white ball on it. You will see
that there is a white line
extending from the ball. At
the top of the screen you
can see information relating to the player's name, the hole number followed by
the figures 0(4), the club currently selected, the distance to the hole and the
"Aim" distance. The club currently selected will be that recommended for your
tee shot on this hole.

Locate the on-screen pointer, and note that you may move it by moving the
mouse. Move the pointer over the "arrow" in the top right hand corner and click
once. The isometric map will rotate through 90. Further clicks on the "arrow"
icon will rotate the map further. A total of four clicks will return the map to its
original position.

SETTING DIRECTION
Now move the pointer onto the isometric map itself and click the mouse button
whilst watching the white line which extends from the ball. You will see the line
move. The "Aim" distance will also change. The white line represents the path
which the ball will take if struck perfectly with the club currently selected,
provided that no external factors such as wind direction influence it.

As you click the mouse on a different pointer location, the white line will attempt

                                  Page 10

to join the ball to the pointer. As the selected club has a maximum distance, the
arc of the white line may rejoin the ground before reaching the pointer. By
moving the white line you may select the direction of your next shot. You
should be aware that shortening the arc below the maximum distance
achievable will not result in the ball being hit only as far as the point selected.
The power of the shot is set later, and you are only setting the direction of the
shot at this stage.

The "Aim" distance shown corresponds to the distance between the ball and
the location of the mouse pointer when clicked, to the nearest five yards. This
allows you to see, at a glance, the distance between the ball and any course
features such as trees, bunkers or the front of the green.

For the purposes of the Quickstart, you should finally click on the base of the
flag itself. Alternatively, clicking the right mouse button when looking at the
Isometric Map will always ensure that you are aiming directly at the hole.

THE ISOMETRIC MAP ICONS
At the bottom of the screen are a number of selectable icons, the functions of
which are described briefly below.

Allows you to alter both height and position of the tee. You should
leave these variables set as they are for the time being.

Allows you to alter your stance and the position of your feet
relative to the ball. You should also leave these variables set as
they are for the time being.

Allows you to view information relating to the club currently
selected or to change club selection. You may view this screen,
but do not change your club at this stage.

                                  Page 11

Allows you to return to the main menu, after confirming that this is
your true intention. Do not select this icon at this stage.

Indicates the direction and strength of the wind. The white line
shows the direction and the red bar below indicates the
approximate strength. Clicking on this icon will have no effect, as it
is for information only. When playing at novice level, wind will not
affect your shot.

Allows you to proceed with the shot by transferring you to the
three-dimensional view.

Once you have set the direction of the shot accurately you should select
the "Proceed" icon. You will then be looking down the fairway in the
exact direction set on the isometric map.

The main viewing window shows your view down the Fairway from the Tee.
You will be able to see the dark green rough on either side of the fairway and
some trees in the distance. At the top of the main window a flag indicator is
positioned directly above the flag on the green. This flag indicator allows you to
see the position of the flag on the green even if your view of the actual flag is
obscured by distance or by obstacles.

Below the main window you can see the player's name, club selected, shots
taken (currently zero) and, in brackets, the par for the hole (for this hole 4), and
current distance to the hole.

                                  Page 12

THE SHOT VIEW ICONS
To the left and right of the main window you will see a variety of icons, some of
which may be familiar from the Isometric Map (namely wind direction and
strength, stance, tee position, and club selection). There is also a "Return to
Isometric Map" icon, a "Camera Position" icon and a "View Pitch Area" icon.

Selecting   to
return  to  the
Isometric Map will allow you
to do just that, in case you wish to reset direction from that view.

Selecting the Camera Position icon will display a window allowing
you to select one of five camera positions. The currently selected
position is indicated by the word "On". You may wish to
experiment with different camera positions as you take successive
shots, but for the time being, leave the Camera Position as it is
currently set.

The "See Pitch Area" icon, when selected, shows a quick time
journey to the pitch area defined by the club and direction
currently selected. It allows you to examine close-up any potential
danger in the area. Once you can see the pitch area, reselecting
the "pitch area" icon will take you to the green. Alternatively to return to the tee
from the pitch area click the right mouse button.

Clicking the right mouse button whilst on the tee will show you the green in
close-up.

                                  Page 13

ADJUSTING DIRECTION
The lowermost icons on each side are arrows pointing to the left and right
which allow you to make last-minute adjustments to the intended direction of
your shot. By clicking on one of these icons you will see the view down the
fairway adjust to the left or right. The intended direction of your shot remains
towards the centre of the main window, but the window itself realigns, to
actually give you a new overall intended direction. There is another way to
adjust direction in the Shot View. By moving the on-screen pointer into the
main window and clicking the left mouse button you may realign the view so
that you are looking towards the point on which you clicked. Once you have
made any final adjustments in direction which you feel are necessary, you are
nearly ready to take your first shot.

TAKING YOUR SHOT
Around the golfer you will see two circular lines. These comprise the
swingometer; the outer line governs the strength of the shot (or backswing)
and the inner governs the timing of the contact with the ball (the downswing).
The timing of contact governs the amount of hook or slice you impart on the
ball. By hooking the ball you can make it deviate to the left from your intended
direction, and by slicing it, to the right, assuming you are a right-handed golfer.
(All descriptions in the manual refer to right-handed golfers).

Hook and slice can be used to great advantage once you learn to control them.
Whilst learning, you should try to avoid hooking or slicing the ball. The best
golfers first learn to remove hook or slice, and then learn how to re-impart them
in a controlled fashion.

You should read through the next eight paragraphs before attempting your first
shot, as things will happen very quickly once you initiate the stroke!

To start your backswing, move the on-screen pointer over the "Proceed" icon
and click the left mouse button. A blue line will move along the outer arc of the
swingometer as you "pick up" the club during your backswing. The higher the
line rises, the higher you are "picking up" the club, and the more power you will
impart to the ball.

A white check marker shows the limit of your "controlled" backswing. For a shot
at optimum power, required to strike the ball the recommended distance for the

                                  Page 14

club you are using, you must stop your backswing at this check point. The
effect of stopping the backswing after this point will be to impart "overswing".
The ball may well go further than the recommended distance, but the shot will
become harder to control.

A fractional delay will occur as you stop the club at the top of your backswing,
but be warned that the delay is barely perceptible; it is as short as it is when
actually swinging a club on a real course! The downswing will then start.

The key to a clean strike, avoiding hook or slice, is to stop the downswing, by
clicking the mouse again (for a third time), at exactly the right moment. Look at
the inner arc of the swingometer. You will see, before you take your shot, a
solid white area of the arc, the "sweet-spot", immediately below the ball. When
the downswing reaches this area it must be stopped.

At this point, before the shot is taken, the solid white area is quite large. When
playing at novice level, the sweet-spot will remain at a constant size. However,
when playing as a handicap or scratch player, the sweet-spot will decrease
during the backswing. The higher the backswing, the more power you will put
into the shot, but the smaller the white area becomes, and the harder it will be
to execute a clean strike. If you stray into "overswing", the white area is likely to
become very small.

As with 'real' golf, the longer the distance to be covered by the downswing, the
less accurate you will be. When club meets ball, the club is travelling at very
high speed. As with 'real' golf, don't expect your first shot to be your best.

MicroProse Golf is a near accurate simulation of what happens when golf club
meets golf ball, and it also simulates accurately the effect of stance, foot
position, ball position and tee position on the shot. Power of backswing is not
the only factor in the equation, but you should concentrate on mastering its
effect before considering the effects of the other parameters.

Now play your first shot by clicking on the "Proceed" icon. The backswing will
start. Click on the mouse when power reaches a maximum, and then click
once again when the downswing reaches the white area.

Fore!

                                  Page 15

At this point it becomes difficult to explain precisely what happens, not because
our flight model is anything less than entirely accurate, but because what
happens depends entirely on your shot. If you strike the ball with near
maximum power, and hit it clean, straight and true, it will fly off along the centre
of the Fairway, with the camera tracking the ball while the ground skims along
below you. However, if you mishit the ball it could go anywhere. Provided it
moves a reasonable distance, the camera will move with it, but if you only
strike the ball a few yards the camera will remain at its starting position. Once
the ball comes to rest, a message will appear in the main window giving details
of the distance the ball travelled and the ground on which the ball has come to
rest. You have played your first shot.

At the completion of your first shot, you will notice the icons surrounding the
main window change. Options to return to the Main Menu and change Camera
Position remain, but new "Save Shot" and "Replay" icons will have appeared.

By selecting the Replay icon you can review your last shot. You will find the
Replay facility particularly useful when learning to control your swing, as it will
show exactly when you stopped your backswing and when you made contact
with the ball. Try to get a feel for the timing of the shot.

You can replay the same shot as many times as you like before moving on to
the next shot. The Save Shot icon, when selected, allows you to save the shot
you have just played to the Data Disk. If you do not have a Data Disk already
prepared, insert a blank disk at this stage and it will be formatted for you. This
allows you to keep a permanent record of any shot for later viewing.

Once you feel you have seen enough of your brilliant, mediocre or simply awful
first shot, select the "Proceed" icon. The Isometric map will return with your ball
in its new position. The information at the top of the screen will have been
updated to show that you have taken one shot; your new recommended club,
the distance now remaining to the hole, and the ball's lie will be shown.

                                  Page 16

As you are no longer on the tee, the icon allowing you to adjust tee height and
position will no longer be displayed. In its place you will see a Lie Information
icon, which will be one of the following;

You may rotate the Isometric Map as explained earlier, if it helps you to get a
better view of your route to the hole. If your first shot carried the ball far
enough, the green may well be in reach with your second shot. The club which
best suits the distance will automatically be selected for you. The white arc
showing the ball's unaffected optimal flight may stop short of the green, but do
not worry unduly, as the ball will roll a certain distance after landing to finish on
the green, especially if you are using a wood or long iron.

If your first shot leaves you so far from the green that it cannot be reached with
the longest club (a Driver) on your second shot, you should still use the club
automatically selected. However, if you are forced to play through or over trees
to reach safety, or have landed in heavy rough or a bunker, another club may
be more suitable. To change from your given club, select the "Change Club"
icon, and choose a more suitable club. The expected distances on the club
selection screen indicate the average distance the ball will travel before landing
(pitch), and before coming to a halt (finish), respectively.

By clicking on a club name you can display the distances for that club. Once
you have made your choice of club, click on the "Proceed" icon to return to the
Isometric Map.

The optimal flight arc expected with your new club will be shown extending
from the ball. Adjust direction by clicking on the point of the isometric map at

                                  Page 17

which you wish to aim. Once again, clicking the right mouse button will ensure
that you are aiming at the hole.

The distance the ball rolls after pitching depends partly on the amount of
backspin which you impart to it which, in turn, is governed, to a certain degree,
by the position of the ball in relation to your feet when you hit it, but more so by
the club you choose. For the purposes of the Quickstart, it is unnecessary to
give more than cursory consideration to the merits of imparting backspin, but
you should be aware that when shots are played without adjustment to the
default setting of ball position in relation to feet, with woods, long or medium
irons, the ball will roll on a good way after pitching.

It is therefore important that the optimal flight arc of the ball allows it to land
before reaching the flag. If it does not, the ball will come to a halt beyond the
flag, and could possibly run off the back of the green.

Once you have selected your club and set your aim, select the "Proceed" icon
to transfer to the Shot View.

Once again you can view the likely pitch area by selecting the relevant icon.
Try selecting a different camera angle for your second shot; the 'track and pan'
position, for instance.

Make any last-minute adjustments to direction, and then take your swing!

Take time to review your shots by using the replay facility, as it will help you to
analyse any faults with your swing.

Eventually you will arrive on or near the green. When you are so close to the
green that you need only hit the ball less than half the maximum distance with
the shortest club (i.e 40 yards with the Pitching Wedge) that club will
automatically be selected for you and you will go straight to the Shot View
without reference to the Isometric Map. You may still go from the Shot View to
the Isometric Map by selecting the "Go to Isometric" icon, but the value of the
Isometric Map diminishes as you near the hole, and more detail can be seen
by going directly to the Shot View.

When playing a shot which requires less than maximum power with your
selected club (whether it is a Pitching Wedge or not), you must adjust your
backswing accordingly.

                                  Page 18

The relationship between power (length of backswing)
and distance (length of shot) is not linear. When you
allow the blue line to travel half distance to the check
marker, the ball will not travel half maximum distance for
the selected club. The relationship is an exponential one,
best illustrated by the following graph.

Many external factors such as wind, foot position, ball lie,
and ground slope influence the relationship. You must
develop a "feel" for the relationship between swing,
power and distance, as you do on a real course. The
Driving Range is the best place to practise!

Once you reach the green the icons and method of control change slightly, and
you will automatically be given a putter. New icons will appear with the
following functions:

View shot from 180 (directly behind hole)

Display 'Grid Lines'

Check speed of green

The art of putting is one which has proved difficult for players of all standards
to master. A certain par can suddenly turn into a double-bogey, and the long,
straight drives of the fairway can be made to seem insignificant, as a short,
sloping two-foot putt curls around the cup. Reading the green is the key to
success.

                                  Page 19

The slower the ball moves, the more it is influenced by the terrain. The putting
green is where the three-dimensional view of Master Golf is at its most useful.
You can actually read the green for yourself; you can move around the green.

There are three points from which a putt must be viewed for you to judge slope
correctly. The view along the line from ball to hole, seen from behind the ball;
the same view seen in the opposite direction, from behind the hole; and a view
at right-angles to the line between ball and hole, as shown below.

Each of these views can be
seen. The view from behind the
ball is seen as the 'default' view
as soon as you arrive on the
green. To see the opposite view
from behind the hole, select the
"180" icon. To see the
perpendicular view, click the
right mouse button anywhere
on the screen.

Judging a slope is made
easiest when  it can  be
referenced with a straight line.
You are able to do this by
viewing the putt from any of the
three viewpoints with gridlines
drawn over the green. These
lines, which are drawn when you select the "Gridlines" icon, show every
contour of the green to full effect. It should be possible to tell immediately
whether the green slopes up- or down- hill to the cup, and whether it slopes
right or left between ball and cup. You must, of course, set your aim and judge
the pace of your putt accordingly. For example, if the green slopes down from
right to left, you must aim to the right of the hole. The pace of the putt is set via
a power bar which will appear when you start your putt by selecting the
"Proceed" icon.

                                  Page 20

The check mark which appears halfway
across the bar indicates the optimum
strength for the distance you must cover to
the cup, if the putt you face were on a
perfectly flat green. If the green is not flat, the
amount of adjustment needed depends on
the degree of slope and "speed" of the green.

The "speed" of the green is important, and is governed, amongst other things,
by the type and length of grass used and the prevailing weather conditions.
Each green is classified as one of five types; very slow, slow, medium, fast or
very fast. The speed of the green on which you are currently playing can be
reviewed by selecting the "Green Speed" icon.

When judging the power required you must take into account both slope and
green speed.

The power bar fills from left to right when you click on the "Proceed" icon. To
stop the power increasing when it reaches the point which represents the
required speed, click the left mouse button again.

If you stop the power bar before it reaches the check marker you will strike the
ball with less power than that required for the same putt on a perfectly flat
green. You would do this for a downhill putt.

If you stop the power bar after it reaches the check marker you will strike the
ball with more power than that required for the same putt on a perfectly flat
green. You would do this for an uphill putt.

If you are making adjustments on a fast green, the adjustment must be greater
than for the same slope on a slow green.

If you were putting downhill on a very fast green you would need less power
than for the same distance putt down the same slope on a slow green. Both
slope and speed of green must be taken into account.

If the ball passes within six feet of the hole during a putt, a window will appear
in the top left of the screen showing a birds-eye view of the cup. You will see
the ball travel across the window and, hopefully, come to rest very close to, or
actually in the cup.

                                  Page 21

After each putt a message will appear telling you how far the ball travelled and
where it came to rest. Below the main window you will see the distance
remaining to the cup. Icons will appear which allow you to replay the shot or to
save it to disk, as normal.

To play your next putt, click on the "Proceed" icon. The view will realign directly
behind your ball. You may view the putt from any of the three angles once
again, and check the Gridlines before clicking on the "Proceed" icon to take
your shot.

Eventually the ball will go down the hole! Remember that, whatever distance
putt you are faced with, the check marker represents the optimum power. Even
when the ball is inches from the cup, strike with close to optimum power.

On completion of the hole, click on the "Proceed" icon. The scorecard will
appear, detailing your score so far. Icons which allow you to return to the main
menu or save the game to disk are selectable, along with an icon which will
take you to the next hole.

This Quickstart is now coming to an end. You can, of course, continue to finish
your round, or just play a few holes. Either way, you now have enough
information to do so. Hopefully you have been bitten already. Golf is like that.
Real soon you'll be looking at your scores and wondering how to get them
down. You'll find some help in, "Developing your Game", starting on page 39.

To quit your round at any time, select one of the "Return to main menu" icons.
Alternatively, after completion of the round the final scorecard will be displayed.
Once you click on the "Proceed" icon a message will appear informing you that
the player has a new profile, and inviting you to save it.

You can save the new profile as explained in the section on "Vital Statistics",
page 79. If you decline the offer, or once you have saved the new profile, you
will be returned to the Main Menu.

                                  Page 22

The main menu offers seven options;

Select this option to begin a new game as you did for the Quickstart. There are
eleven types of game available, each of which is clearly explained in the
section "Handicaps and Competitions" on Page 27.

The Driving Range is the ideal place to practise. You are not restricted to
practising shots with your Driver; you can use any of your woods or irons.
When selecting this option you will be asked to insert a course disk, which you
should do. The Isometric Map of the Driving Range will appear, with the icons
which normally appear on the Isometric Map available for selection. If you have
not worked through the Quickstart you will not have seen an Isometric Map
before. By turning back to page 10 you can work through the section of the
Quickstart which deals specifically with the Isometric Map.

At the top of the screen you will see the club currently selected and the aim
distance; you will also notice that there is not a conventional hole shown on the
Map. There are two putting greens, one out of range ahead of you and one
behind you. You can also see ground markings along the avenues of trees
which show distance from the tee. For conventional driving and long iron
practice, during which you are more concerned with hitting the ball sweetly
than landing the ball on the green, you should hit towards and along the

                                  Page 23

avenues of trees. For short iron or accuracy practice, you might like to aim
towards the green behind you.

You may change your selected club, foot position, stance, tee position and
height as normal via the Isometric Map icons. On going to the Shot View you
will see an additional icon, allowing you to switch between tee/fairway practice
and bunker practice.

If you select bunker practice you will automatically be taken to a
bunker near a green.

When you have finished practising, select the "Return to Main
Menu" icon.

Putting is not Golf; it is a game within Golf. How well you can hit the ball
through the air bears little relation to how well you can roll it along the ground.
As nearly half your shots during a round are likely to be putts, you'd better
practise them!

On selecting putting practice, insert the course disk if it is requested. You will
be taken directly to the Shot View of the putting green. An introduction to
putting can be found from page 19 of the Quickstart. There are some extra
options associated with putting practice which are not available during an
actual round, represented by the following icons:

Switches between a flat and sloping green, allowing you to
practise a wider variety of putts.

Moves the putt to a new position on the green.

After each missed putt this icon will appear, allowing you to play
the ball from the position in which it came to rest.

                                  Page 24

After each successful putt the ball will automatically be reset in a new position
for your next putt. To leave the putting green, select the "Return to Main Menu"
icon.

After the completion of each hole during a round, you may save the game. This
option has not been designed to allow you to bend the rules by replaying a
hole which you have double-bogeyed immediately with a view to keeping your
scorecard 'clean'!

You will find the saving and loading options useful if you do not have time to
complete a full eighteen holes in one playing session, or during Tournaments
over more than one round.

By selecting to 'Load Round' you may continue a previously saved game. More
information on loading and saving can be found in the section "Vital Statistics"
on page 79.

Tall tales of great shots are often the subject of conversation at the nineteenth
hole. Microprose Golf allows you to record for posterity those magic moments
on the course by saving any individual shot to the Data Disk, for replay at a
later date. On the completion of each shot an "Immediate Replay" and a "Save
Shot to Disk" icon will appear. You should select the latter.

By selecting the 'Replay' option from the Main Menu you can impress your
friends or boost your own confidence by reviewing your great shots before
stepping onto the course.

You will be asked to insert the Data Disk holding the shot. More information on
loading and saving can be found in the section "Vital Statistics" on page 79.

MicroProse Golf offers a full statistical analysis for each player for whom a
profile exists. A player can create a profile after the completion of one round.
Player profiles are stored on the Data Disk, which you must insert after
selecting to view the stats. Each player profile shows stats for each course
played, with a hole-by-hole analysis showing the average score for each hole
and your performance against par. It also keeps track of your Handicap, best

                                  Page 25

performances, average performances, and your last performance at each hole
and for each round. An explanation of how to use and read the stats displays
can be found in the section "Vital Statistics" on page 79.

MicroProse Golf incorporates a demonstration mode, during which you can
watch a computer-driven golfer playing a round on the course of your choice.
You can learn by watching the demo and noting the club and direction which
the computer golfer selects.
On selecting this option you will be asked to insert a course disk and to select
a course. The demo will continue automatically until you click either mouse
button to return to the Main Menu.

                                  Page 26

MicroProse Golf has been designed to be as near accurate a simulation of golf
as is possible. Like real golf, you should improve your play over time, but your
initial standard might not be as high as you would like. It can be shattering to
your confidence to play against golfers whose ability and technique are
superior to yours, and consequently beat you easily.

You will improve at your own pace, but while you are learning you will want to
experience the edge that playing competitive golf can give your game; the
taste of competition is much sweeter when you win.

The handicap system was introduced to give players of unequal ability an
equal chance in competitive golf, whilst ensuring that it is always in each
golfer's interest to get his handicap as low as possible. The ultimate aim is to
become a 'Scratch' golfer playing off par.

Before playing competitively, it is important to gain an understanding of the
relevant terminology associated with handicap and par.

Each hole is designated as a par three, four or five. Par is the measure of how
many shots a scratch golfer (one with with no handicap) should take for that
hole. On a hole of up to 250 yards in length, it is assumed that the scratch
player will reach the green with his first shot, and then take two putts, making it
a par three. On a hole between 250 and 475 yards long, two shots should be
needed to reach the green. Add two puffs, and you have a par four. A hole over
475 yards long will require three shots in reaching the green, which, when
added to the two putts required, gives a par five.

By adding the pars for each of the eighteen holes the total par for the course
can be found. On most courses, the majority of holes will be par fours. If there
are an equal number of par threes and par fives, the total par for the course will
be 72. The total par is sometimes referred to as the standard scratch score
(SSS), the score expected by a scratch player. It is this total from which
handicaps are assessed.

                                  Page 27

If a player expects to go round in four shots more than the SSS, his handicap
is 4 shots. If he expected to complete a par 72 course in 86 shots his handicap
would be 14.

The maximum handicap for men is 28 and, in theory, anyone on that handicap
should go round in 28 shots more than the course par. However, anyone taking
more shots is still given a maximum handicap of 28 shots.

The point at which a handicap is taken into account varies, depending on the
type of competition. When playing a round of strokeplay the strokes received
are subtracted on completion of the round. Each player subtracts his handicap
from his gross score, and the player with the lowest resulting nett score wins.

During matchplay they are assessed on a hole-by-hole basis; calculating the
strokes received is not as simple as merely subtracting one player's handicap
from his opponent's.

During singles matchplay, three-quarters of the difference between the two
players is used in the calculation. For example, in a match between Player A
with a nine handicap and Player B with a 21 handicap, there is a handicap
difference of 12. For a singles match, three-quarters of the difference is taken
to give a handicap allowance of nine. Player B therefore receives nine shots
from his opponent player A.

Matchplay golf uses the handicap system differently. Here the golfers are
playing to win holes. As soon as one golfer has holed out, his opponent may
only take as many shots as the first player took to hole out. For example, if the
first player holed out in four shots and his opponent was about to take his fifth
shot, the first player would have won the hole.

As a result, the total number of shots for the round cannot be calculated, as
each hole is not necessarily played out to a finish. Therefore the handicap
cannot be deducted at the end of the round; it must be deducted on a hole-by-
hole basis.

The Course Card has a column marked "S.l.", with each hole being given a
number from one to 18. The "Stroke Index" indicates the difficulty level of each
hole, relative to the par for that hole. If player B is due to receive nine strokes

                                  Page 28

from player A in a singles matchplay competition, he would receive one shot at
each hole with a Stroke Index of nine or less.

Handicap calculations become more complicated when more than two players
are competing. For each description of a competition type ( starting on page
31) an explanation of handicap calculation is given.

LOWERING YOUR HANDICAP
Your first round of handicap golf is played off a handicap of 28. In order to
lower your handicap you must complete the round in less than 28 over par,
giving you a neff score less than par.

Handicaps are not adjusted immediately to reflect your 'best' score. They are
an indication of your average expected score. Playing your first round with a
gross score under par (before deduction of your handicap allowance) will not
automatically make you a scratch player.

Handicaps are divided into the following categories;

EXACT AND PLAYING HANDICAPS
Exact Handicap states an exact number (e.g. 13.6).

Playing Handicap is the Exact Handicap rounded to the nearest whole number
(0.5 is rounded upwards).

ALTERATIONS
If a player returns a score that is no more than two strokes above his Playing
Handicap, his Exact Handicap is not altered.

                                  Page 29

If a player returns a score that is three or more strokes above his Playing
Handicap, his Exact Handicap is increased by 0.1

If a player returns a score that is below his Playing Handicap, his Exact
Handicap is reduced by an amount per stroke that he was below his Playing
Handicap, the amount per stroke being determined by his Handicap category.

STROKEPLAY
Strokeplay is usually thought to be the most demanding type of competition.
The lowest total score for eighteen holes brings victory. In professional
tournaments and championships the gross score (without any account to
handicap) is used. During amateur competitions (other than certain specific
championships), the nett score is calculated by deducting the player's
handicap from his gross score. Strokeplay is the only format which can be
used to assess handicap.

While playing a round of strokeplay there can be a temptation to think too far in
advance. Think only of one hole at a time, and think firmly in the present. Do
not assume that your final score will be a multiple of the number of holes you
have already played; do not even think of front-nines and back-nines; certainly
don't dwell on bad shots; think of the next shot, but don't take unnecessary
risks or gambles, especially with recovery shots.

The time to add up your score is when you have left the eighteenth green.
During tournaments, your partner is not the only golfer you are playing against.
Even so, resist the temptation to look at the leaderboard. Everyone else has
played a different number of holes to you until you leave the course, and the
competition is not over until your last opponent has left the course too.

                                  Page 30

MATCHPLAY
In Matchplay you compete hole-by-hole against one opponent or partnership.
The player or partnership with the lowest score on each hole wins that hole. If
both players take the same number of shots, the hole is said to be 'halved'.
Handicaps are taken into account according to the Stroke Index of the hole. A
player can never receive more than one stroke per hole.

If player A and player B are both scratch players, and, at the first hole A takes
four shots and B five, A wins the hole and goes "1 up". B is said to be "1 down".
If the second hole is halved, A stays "1 up" and B "1 down". If B wins the third
hole, taking three shots to A's five, he wins the hole and the match becomes
"All square". The fact that B has taken two shots less at the hole does not
mean that he pulls back two 'points'.

Eventually, at the sixteenth tee, A is three up with three holes to play. If the
sixteenth is halved, B can no longer win enough holes to square the match,
and A is declared the winner by "3 and 2", indicating that he is three up with
two to play. The remaining holes are not played.

In matchplay you do not hole out, and the hole-by-hole score is irrelevant.
However, your mental approach to matchplay should be similar to that of
strokeplay. Ignore your opponent's score until the hole is over. Try not to
assume that he will automatically hole his three-foot putt and that, as a result,
you must be bold with your twelve-footer. Play it as you would normally. If he
hits a long drive and gets a lucky bounce over a bunker, don't try to do the
same with your drive. Play your own game.

MEDAL (OR STROKEPLAY)
Select this option to play a round of Medal golf with one to four players. Medal
is a contest over eighteen holes decided by the lowest number of shots, with
handicap allowances considered after completion of the round.

SKINS
One round of Matchplay golf played for money. Each hole is worth a certain
amount of money, the player taking the least number of shots at the hole being
declared the hole winner, collecting the money for that hole. Handicaps are

                                  Page 31

taken into account at each hole, as with standard Matchplay. The first six holes
are each worth the same amount, the next six twice as much each, and the
final six three times as much. If a hole is 'squared' the money for that hole is
carried forward to the next. You are invited to set the 'pot' for the first hole. The
computer will then calculate how much each hole is worth, and display the total
pot. As you play the round the computer will automatically keep a note of each
player's winnings.

HEAD-TO-HEAD
Once you have attained 'scratch' status you can challenge the first of eight
computer-controlled ranked players in a head-to-head challenge over 18 holes.
The round can be played as stroke or match-play.

Load in your scratch player as normal. Your next head-to-head opponent's
name will be shown. Select the proceed icon to display a picture of your
opponent and his style of play. His style cannot be altered! The round is then
played as normal. If you beat him you will face another challenge from a new
opponent. If you lose you'll have to play the winner again another day.

TOURNAMENT
There are three classes of tournament playable; an 18-hole all-comers
tournament, open to every handicap player; a 36-hole tournament open to
every player with a handicap of 14 or under; and a 72-hole tournament
restricted to scratch players. All tournaments are played in strokeplay format.
After each hole the scorecard displays an extra icon allowing you to view the
leaderboard. The tournament is played in a minimum of pairs. If you are the
only human controlled golfer, you will play with a computer controlled partner. If
there are more than one human controlled golfers (up to the maximum of four)
they will all play together.

SINGLES
One round of matchplay golf between two players, the winner being the one
winning most holes, with handicap allowances allocated according to stroke
index.

                                  Page 32

THREEBALL
One round of matchplay golf in which three players each play their own ball;
there are actually three matches going on at once; Player A vs. Player B, B vs
C, and A vs. C, with the scoring for each match calculated after each hole,
handicaps being allowed according to stroke index.

FOURBALL
Four players each play a ball, but scoring is in partnerships, matching the
lowest score of one partnership with the lowest of the other for matchplay, or by
recording the lowest score of each side for strokeplay. In a match,
handicapping is on three-quarter basis, the players taking handicap allowances
from the lowest handicap player of the four.

BESTBALL THREE
One player plays against a partnership, each playing his own ball, the score of
the single player being compared against the best score of the partnership in
matchplay format. The handicap allowance is calculated as three-quarters of
the difference between the handicap of the single player and the average of
the two partners' handicaps.

BESTBALL FOUR
Similar to bestball three, one player plays against a team of three, the score of
the single player being compa,red against the best score of the team in
matchplay format. The handicap allowance is calculated as three-quarters of
the difference between the handicap of the single player and the average of
the team members' handicaps.

THREESOME
Played as strokeplay or matchplay, in which a single player plays against a
partnership who use one ball and take alternate shots. Handicap calculations
are as bestball three, with full handicap allowances being used for strokeplay
calculations.

                                  Page 33

FOURSOMES
Strokeplay or matchplay, in which a partnership play alternate shots with one
ball against another partnership doing similarly. Alternate shot partnerships
always take turns to start a hole, without reference to which player putted out
the previous hole. Handicap calculations take three-quarters of the difference
between the average handicap for each side.

                                  Page 34

Each time you select to play a "New Round" via the Main Menu you will be
invited to select a competition type. Depending on the type of competition you
select, you must then select the number of players and whether you wish to
play the competition as a strokeplay or match play format.

The player set-up screen will then appear. This allows
you to configure each of the players as you wish.

The icons at the bottom of the screen allow you to
proceed to the first tee, return to the main menu, load an
existing player profile, configure a computerised
opponent or select different clubs.

The first player will be highlighted. By moving the pointer over another player
and clicking the left mouse button you will highlight the new player.

When a player is highlighted you may give him a name, by simply typing one in
via the keyboard. You may wish to replace him by loading in an existing player
profile from your Data Disk. To do so, simply select the "Load existing player"
icon when the player you wish to replace is highlighted.

You will be asked to insert the Data Disk holding the profile. This profile will
replace that of the player currently highlighted.

                                  Page 35

On the right of the screen, next to each player's name, are options to set up
the players as human or computer controlled, right or left handed, and as a
novice or handicap player. These buttons, which act as toggles between either
option in a pair, should be selected in the usual way if you wish to toggle them.

Whenever you set up a player as computer controlled, you can also set his
'style' of play, by selecting the 'computer style' icon.

A window will appear allowing you to set the levels of 'Power', 'Putting' ability,
standard of his 'Long Game', 'Short Game', 'Strategy', and level of
'Aggression'.

Each quality can be below average, standard, or high, depending on which of
the three boxes is highlighted next to that quality. You can change them by
clicking on one of the boxes which is not highlighted. The box furthest to the
right represents the highest level. When you have configured your opponent,
select the arrow to return to the Set Up screen.

If you change any of the computer opponent's styles, his handicap will also
change. Each computer player is initially set up with a style configuration which
will give him a handicap of 10. If you improve more of his styles than you
decrease, his handicap will tend to decrease. If you decrease his ability overall,
his handicap will increase.

Each human player can be designated as "Novice" or "Handicap". Human
handicap players start out with a handicap of 28. After each round, the
handicap of a player is re-adjusted and his stats updated to take account of
any improvement or deterioration.

Please note that some types of play (head-to-head, 36- and 72-hole
tournaments) are only available to players of a certain standard. If one or more
of the players you set-up or load does not reach that standard (his handicap is
too high) a message will appear when you try to go to the first tee, and you
must return to the Main Menu to select a different type of play.

                                  Page 36

If you designate a player as a Novice, he will play without the wind influencing
his shots. Only human players can be designated as novices. Novices do not
have a stated handicap, but will be given one of 28, just for this round. A
Novice cannot improve his handicap.

Novice players will find it much easier to hit the ball straight as the "sweet-spot"
of the swingometer (see Quickstart P.14, or On the First Tee P.40) remains at
a constant size during backswing.

At the bottom of the screen you will see a "Select Clubs" icon. This allows you
to change the clubs automatically given to you for a different combination.
Each player can carry a maximum of 14 clubs. Full information on club
selection can be found on page 43.

To begin the round select the "Go to first Tee" icon. If you leave without altering
a player's set up he will automatically be given a default name of "Player 1, 2, 3
or 4".

                                  Page 37

DEVELOPING YOUR GAME
Having worked through the QuickStart you will have learnt much about
MicroProse Golf. You should be familiar with the workings of the basic controls,
although you may not have mastered them yet. Perfecting a controlled swing is
the key to success, and time spent practising on the Driving Range will always
pay off. Learn to walk before you learn to run!

You can now develop your game in two ways; by trial and error or by studying
the desired techniques before putting them into practice. Both are valid; if you
lack confidence in your swing, the time you might spend studying could be
beffer spent practising via the trial and error route. You will pick up information
about the factors other than swing which influence a shot, but should
concentrate on accuracy of swing.

If you feel that your swing will allow you to repeat shots consistently, and it is a
lack of understanding about the other factors involved in club/ball dynamics
that is holding your game back, you are ready to learn about the principles
behind altering such things as stance, swing, ball position and foot position,
and the way in which they can be used to drastically lower your scores.

Developing your golf strategy is important if you want to master the courses,
and a special section is devoted to consideration of a few of the tricky
decisions you'll have to make.

The following sections deal with every aspect of golf in increasing detail. From
the basics of club selection and judging distance through to the reasons for
sometimes using a five-iron for a short ten yard pitch-and-run shot. Understand
the basic principles and you will become a good player; learn a few tricks as
well and you'll be unbeatable!

MicroProse Golf has been developed to be both a computer game and a
learning aid. To learn how to play the computer game you should concentrate
on the sections of italicised text which appear. To master the computer game
and actually improve your on-course golf you should read the explanations
preceding the italicised text before putting principle into practice.

                                  Page 39

Any game with a history as long as Golf is bound to have seen changes. The
tools of a golfer's trade have not been exempt. From early 'wooden' shafts to
iron shafts and now laminates, graphite or titanium compounds, the materials
used have developed enormously through the years.
Media advertising now leads to the likes of Ping,
Slazenger and Wilson all promoting their clubs by
laying claim to the latest technological
breakthrough. If money were no option, the
fanatical golfer could carry a club for any shot
imaginable. However, it was this very practice
which led to the rule change in the 1930s,
stipulating a maximum number of fourteen
clubs - a rule which is still adhered to today.
It was the caddies, rather than the players,
who were suffering under the strain of
carrying twenty-five clubs in a huge golf
bag!

CLUB SELECTION
The limit of fourteen includes a putter,
and for most players this leaves as
an ideal full set a driver (1 wood)
and 3 and 5 woods; 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
and 9 irons; and a pitching wedge
and a sand wedge.

The angle of loft increases through
the set of woods and irons enabling
progressively higher shots. Adjacent clubs also differ in length by about 1/2
inch (narrowing to 1/4 inch for short irons).

                                  Page 41

The changes in length
and angle in loft are
combined with a change in
angle between shaft and
ground. The most upright
club is the pitching wedge
(excepting the putter), with the
flattest being the long irons and
the woods.

The combination of all factors in club
grading means that, for equivalent
power shots, woods will usually travel
further than irons. The lower the
number of the club, the further and
flatter the shot will travel.

                                  Page 42

The clubs given to you automatically at the start of a round of Microprose Golf
are a driver (1 wood) and 3 and 5 woods; 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 irons; a
pitching wedge and a sand wedge; and a putter You may vary the combination
of clubs before each round, via the 'Player Setup' screen, by clicking on the
'Select Club' icon.

The full llst of seventeen clubs will appear; with the fourteen default clubs
highlighted. To be able to select a club which is not highlighted, you must first
deselect a highlighted one,
by cllcking on it, as you can
never have more than
fourteen clubs in your bag.

Then click on the clubs
which you do wish to take
with you. The putter cannot
be de-selected. Cllck on the
"Proceed" icon once you are
happy with your selection of
clubs. You need not take a
full set of fourteen clubs; you
can have some fun playing a "one club challenge'; in which each player takes
only one club (usually a five fron) and a putter

The club selection chart is also used to set the unfts of measurement in the
game, between yards and metres. To toggle between them cllck on the "Y/M"
box in the lower right corner of the display.

Just above this icon is another showing a golfer's jersey By cllcking on This
icon you can set the colour you wish to wear! Each cllck wm step through The
available colours.

Once you have selected your clubs and jersey and stated your preference for
yards or mefres, select the arrow to return to the 'Player Set Up' screen.

                                  Page 43

THE BASIC PARTS OF A CLUB
Learning the name for each of
the  basic  club  parts  is
important. It will aid in teaching
as fault-finding often involves
referring to these parts of a club
and their movements during its
swing.

The correct shaft is vital,
especially with woods. A stiff
shaft will tend to lead to poor
height and shots finishing to the
right. Weak and overly flexible
shafts will lead to erratic
direction.

Drivers have a loft angle of
anything between 70 and 12.
The better the player, the less
the angle of loft required for
comfort.

The height obtainable from an
iron is not only dictated by the
angle of loft. The weight
distribution up and down the
clubhead is also influential,
although to a lesser extent.
With the weight at the base of
the clubhead the ball will tend
to fly higher, but length may be
lost. With the weight nearer the
centre, length is gained at a
flatter trajectory. Tournament
pros will often opt for the latter,
but a good strike is essential!

                                  Page 44

Iron weighting across the clubhead can have an influence on the precision
required for a clean shot. Some clubs, such as the Ping type, carry more
weight at heel and toe than in the centre. The effect is to spread the 'sweet-
spot', lowering the accuracy of strike required to produce a straight shot.

The club with the widest variety of designs is probably the putter. Varying in
angles of loft from 3 (for smooth greens) to 7 (for bad ones), they must, by
regulation, have an angle of at least 10 between puffer and shaft (to prevent
players adopting a croquet-type action). The four basic designs - mallet, blade,
centre-shaft and Ping type - have varying sizes of 'sweet-spot' according to
weight distribution across the face. A light putter can present problems for a
smooth swing; the heavier it is the straighter the swing will tend to be.

                                  Page 45

One of the joys of golf is that every new hole brings a new challenge. Walking
onto the first tee you'll be full of anticipation, a little nervous, wondering if this is
going to be the round when you finally master the course or, if it's your first time
at a new venue, eager to test your mettle against the unseen.

It becomes easy to rush things. A cursory glance at your course map, a look up
at the fairway and you feel ready to tee-up and let fly. To fall victim to such a
thought process is to become easy meat for the great unseen enemies, course
architects. They are the guys who chuckle at the thought of you thinking such
things as "Big fairway, big drive" or "I can see the flag, therefore I can carry the
green".

Stop and think again. Before each hole you are told two things of vital
importance; the par and the distance. Even more importantly, in Microprose
Golf you are given an Isometric Map of the hole which allows you to plan each
hole meticulously. Although your best laid plans don't always come to fruition,
those which are carefully thought out succeed more often than those which are
not.

A number of holes are analysed in the "Advanced Play"
sections later in the Handbook. You are advised to make
time to read them sooner or later!

THE ISOMETRIC MAP
The isometric map shows The hole which you are about
to play and its nearest neighboring hole. The green to
which you are playing can be identified by the red flag,
and the position of the tee by the white ball on it. You will
see that There is a white ilne extending from The ball. At
the top of the screen you can see information giving the
player's name, The hole number followed by par for the hole in brackets, The
club currently selected, The distance to The hole, and the 'Aim" distance. The
club currently selected wm be That recommended for your tee shot on This hole.

                                  Page 47

Locate the on-screen pointer, and note that you may move it by moving the
mouse. Move the pointer over the arrow" in the top right hand corner and click
once. The isometric map will rotate through 90. Further clicks on the "arrow"
icon will rotate the map further. A total of four clicks will return the map to its
original position.

SETTING DIRECTION, CHOOSING CLUB AND MEASURING DISTANCE
Now move The pointer onto The isometric map itself and click the mouse button
whilst watching the white ilne which extends from the ball. You will see the ilne
move. The 'Aim" distance will also change. The white line represents The path
which the ball will take if struck perfectly with the club currently selected,
provided that no external factors such as wind direction influence it.

As you click the mouse on a different pointer location, the white line will
attempt to join The ball to The pointer. As The selected club has a maximum
distance, the arc of the white line may rejoin the ground before reaching the
pointer By moving the white ilne you may select the direction of your next shot.
You should be aware That shortening The arc below the maximum distance
achievable will not result in the ball being hit only as far as the point selected.
The power of the shot is set later, and you are only setting the direction of the
shot at this stage.

Selecting the 'Change Club' icon will display the club
selection window

The clubs you chose to bring with you are highlighted in
yellow and the club currently selected in white. Below
the clubs you will see the words "Expected'; "Record"
and "Holeout".

"Expected" will be followed by two numbers, The number
on the left being smaller than the one on the right The
smaller number represents the expected pitch distance
(the distance the ball wm travel before bouncing for the
first time), and The greater number The expected finish distance (The distance
the ball will travel before coming to a halt), for the currently selected club.
These numbers correspond to Those you will find on your Club Selection Card,
and are intended as a guide only.

                                  Page 48

There will not be any numbers next to "Record" or "Holeout" when you first
start to play. As soon as you have used a club, the record pitch and finish
distances for That club wm be recorded. However, do not assume That These
'records' give an accurate indication of what to expect every shot. Your longest
shot is ilkely to be one played with The wind's help!

The "Holeout" reading will take even longer to accumulate. It shows the
longest shot played with that club which actually finished up in the hole!
Naturally you will soon have a reading for your putter It is unilkely That you'll
ever get one for your driver If you do, save the shot to disk for posterity!

To change The selected club, simply move The pointer over your new choice
and cllck the left mouse button. To return to the Isometric View select the
"Proceed" arrow

If you changed club, you will on returning to the Isometric Map, notice That The
length and curve of the white arc has changed. The arc not only shows
expected distance, but also expected paTh of The shot. You can see That the
short irons have a very high arc and The long ones a shallow arc. Use The arc
to judge clearance over obstacles such as trees and water hazards.

The 'Aim" distance shown corresponds to The distance between The ball and
the location of The mouse pointer when dicked, to The nearest five yards. This
allows you to see, at a glance, The distance between The ball and any course
features such as trees, bunkers or the front of the green. This facility is
especially useful when considering a change of club. It is not necessary to
physically change clubs to see if the new choice wm reach a certain landmark;
you can use The "aim" distance to check, and refer to your Club Selection Card

if you experiment wfth The Isometric Map, changing clubs and direction, and
subsequently want to return your aim so That ft is direcily at the flag, just cllck
the right mouse button. The arc will reallgn automatically

                                  Page 49

THE ISOMETRIC MAP ICONS
At the bottom of the screen are a number of selectable icons, the functions of
which are described briefly below

Allows you to alter boTh height and position of The tee. Please refer to page 61
for more information about The tee.

Allows you to alter your stance and The position of your feet relative to The ball.
Please refer to page 63 for more information about stance on The tee.

Allows you to view information relating to the club currently selected or to
change club selection, as explained above.

Allows you to return to the main menu, after confirming that this is your true
intention.

Indicates the direction and strength of the wind. The upper circular section
shows the wind's direction. It represents a top-down view with you standing in
the centre of the circles looking straight ahead at the point marked X. The
white ilne shows the dfrection of the wind (in this example blowing towards you
and from left to right), and the red bar below the circles indicates The wind's
approximate strength. Clicking on this icon will have no effect, as it is for
information only Hints on playing in windy conditions can be found on page 92.

Allows you to proceed with the shot by transferring you to the three-
dimensional view

Once you have set the direction ot the shot accurately you should select
the "Proceed" icon. You will then be looking down the tairway in the
exact direction set on the isometric map.

                                  Page 50


                   * MICROPROSE GOLF *
                   -------------------

                   TECHNICAL SUPPLEMENT


CONTENTS       Your Microprose Golf package (?) should contain
               a manual, this Technical Supplement, 3 disks, a
               club selectiton guide, course maps and a 
               registration card.


REQUIRED       COMPUTER & DISPLAY: This simulation requires 
EQUIPMENT      either a Commodore Amiga with a minimum of 1
               megabyte of RAM or an Atari ST of 512k of RAM,
               and a colour monitor. Please prepare a blank 
               formatted disk in advance for a use as a Data
               Disk.
               CONTROLS: The simulation can be run enirely from
               the keyboard or with a joystick, but a mouse is
               strongly recommended for playing the game.


INSTALLING     Boot up your hard disk as normal, insert the 
ON HARDRIVE    Program Disk in Drive df0: and type the 
               the following:
               cd df0:
               golfinstall
               The Program Disk will then be copied into a folder
               on your Hard-disk root directory called "GOLF".
               You will then be asked to insert the two course
               disks so that the course data can be copied into
               the "GOLF" folder.
               NOTE: Golf runs from a folder that is situated in
                     your root directory. If you copy the files
                     into a sub-directory the program won't run
                     correctly.


INSTALLING     To install future courses that may be released,
FUT. COURSE    open the folder "GOLF", and type 'courseinstall'.
DISKS ON A HD  All the course data form the new disk will be 
               copied into your "GOLF" folder.


LOADING FROM   If your computer has KickStart in ROM, insert the 
FLOPPY DISKS   Program Disk into the internal drive. Power up the
               computer. The program will then auto-load.
               (oh really?)


LOADING FROM   Boot up your hard-disk as normal. Open the "GOLF"
A HARDDISK     folder and type 'GOLF'.


SAVED GAMES,   Whenever you wish to save a game, replay or player
REPLAYS AND    profile, the file will be saved to the device that
PLAYER         your first booted the game from. (eg: if you booted
PROFILES       the game from Hard-Disk, files will be saved to
               Hard-Disk). You can, however, save to Drive A, Drive
               B or Hard-Disk, depending upon what you have 
               connected at the time by clicking on the appropriate
               icon at the time of saving.


               OPERATING DIFFICULTIES AND LOADING PROBLEMS!
               --------------------------------------------


               In the vast majority of cases a loading problem
               is not of faulty software, but either an incorrect
               procedure or a hadware fault. Please ensure that the
               loading instructions have been correctly executed.
               The most common hardware failures are due to a
               misalignment of the heads in the disk drive. 
               Such faults may be detected by loading the game on 
               another computer.


               Alternatively, a virus may have transferred into your
               hardware from another piece of software.
               Pirated copies of games are an incredibly common 
               source of viruses. It always pays to own orginal 
               software. (a virus killer is a cheaper solution -RBL)


               In the unlikely event of a software fault, please 
               return the complete package, with receipt to the 
               place of purchase. Microprose regret that goods can't
               be replaced unless bought from the company directly.


               If you have any difficulty whilst loading MICROPROSE
               GOLF, or need help in geting the simulation to run.
               Microprose will be happy to help you on the helpline.
               Please ring UK (0666) 504399, Monday to Friday 0900
               to 1700 hrs. Have a pen and paper handy when you call.


PROTECTION     We regret that organised (FairLight) and casual pircay
               forces us to use manual protection. When the game has 
               loaded, you will be asked to indicate which language
               your manual is in, by clicking on a nationalflag icon
               (English, French or German). You will then be asked to
               type in the word corresponding to the given manual
               ref. in the form Page number, Line number and then
               word number. Simply open the manual at the appropriate
               page, count down to the required line and then across
               to find the correct word. Type this word in and press
               Return. the game will then load.


               CONTROLLING MICROPROSE GOLF WITH KEYBOARD OR JOYSTICK
               -----------------------------------------------------


               We strongly recommend that the mouse is used as a
               control method for playing this game. However, if you
               prefer to use Joystick or Keyboard as a control method
               you may do so. The game is configured on both Atari ST
               and Commodore Amiga to read from Mouse, Keyboard or
               Joystick all the time, so it is not necessary for you
               to select which you require. The alternative Keyboard
               and Joystick controls are listed below:


      MOUSE          KEYBOARD EQUIVALENT          JOYSTICK EQUIVALENT
      -----          -------------------          -------------------

      Up             Cursor Up                    Up
      Down           Cursor Down                  Down
      Left           Cursor Left                  Left
      Right          Cursor Right                 Right
      L. Button      Left Alt & A Keys            Fire Button
      R. Button      Right Alt & A Keys           Right Alt & A Keys


                           INFO ABOUT THE CLUBS
                           --------------------


               Distances are given for average pitch and finish 
               distances for each club, in yards, for both novice
               (28 handicap) and scratch players. The distances
               assume a perfect lie and no wind.


                 _______________________________________________
                |            |                |                |
                |            |     NOVICE     |    SCRATCH     |
                |____________|________________|________________|
                |            |       |        |       |        |
                |   CLUB     | PITCH | FINISH | PITCH | FINISH |
                ------------------------------------------------
                 1. Wood        199     243      227     270
                 2. Wood        194     228      221     253
                 3. Wood        187     215      213     239
                 4. Wood        184     206      206     229
                 5. Wood        177     196      200     218
                 1. Iron        176     206      199     229
                 2. Iron        168     195      190     216
                 3. Iron        166     186      186     206
                 4. Iron        158     175      179     194
                 5. Iron        150     164      167     182
                 6. Iron        146     155      164     172
                 7. Iron        135     141      153     157
                 8. Iron        123     128      137     142
                 9. Iron        110     113      124     125
                 Pitching Wedge  96     100      108     111
                 Sand Wedge      76      76       84      84


                     INFO ABOUT THE DIFFERENT COURSES
                     --------------------------------


        BUCKLAND HEATH:                 MOUNTSUMMER:


        | HOLE | YDS | PAR | S.I. |     | HOLE | YDS | PAR | S.I. |
        ---------------------------     ---------------------------
            1    428    4     15            1    451    5     14
            2    411    4     12            2    403    4      4
            3    462    5     18            3    421    4      1
            4    407    4     10            4    432    4     10
            5    130    3     13            5    158    3     13
            6    317    4      6            6    372    4     16
            7    386    4     14            7    544    5      3
            8    351    4     11            8    514    5      7
            9    463    5     17            9    390    4     17
           10    198    3      2           10    142    3     11
           11    355    4      4           11    284    4     18
           12    162    3      7           12    415    4      8
           13    332    4      1           13    386    4      5
           14    487    5      8           14    533    5     15
           15    396    4      5           15    498    5      6
           16    326    4      3           16    130    3      2
           17    130    3      9           17    374    4      9
           18    466    5     16           18    521    5     12


        FENHAM VALLEY:                  BALLYBROOK:


        | HOLE | YDS | PAR | S.I. |     | HOLE | YDS | PAR | S.I. |
        ---------------------------     ---------------------------
            1    455    5      6            1    413    4     15
            2    364    4      9            2    154    3      8
            3    152    3     10            3    418    4     13
            4    439    4     14            4    476    4     10
            5    356    4     15            5    492    5     16
            6    140    3     18            6    401    4     12
            7    468    5      4            7    369    4      1
            8    496    5      7            8    186    3      3
            9    130    3      5            9    411    4      2
           10    301    4     17           10    401    4      5
           11    492    5     12           11    464    5      4
           12    184    3      2           12    352    4     14
           13    379    4      8           13    357    4     17
           14    474    5     11           14    168    3      6
           15    152    3     16           15    414    4      7
           16    354    4      3           16    475    5     11
           17    136    3     13           17     93    3     18
           18    484    5      1           18    506    5      9


        ST. AUGUSTINE:                  FAIRDALE:


        | HOLE | YDS | PAR | S.I. |     | HOLE | YDS | PAR | S.I. |
        ---------------------------     ---------------------------
            1    452    4      8            1    500    5      3
            2    434    4      4            2    420    4      8
            3    472    5      6            3    337    4      9
            4    136    3     18            4    410    4     14
            5    329    4     17            5    184    3      2
            6    458    5     12            6    323    4     17
            7    462    5     13            7    509    5      1
            8    320    4     16            8    507    5      6
            9    159    3      3            9    505    4     12
           10    457    4      1           10    170    3     13
           11    466    5     14           11    172    3      7
           12    344    4     15           12    378    4     10
           13    338    4     10           13    385    4     15
           14    136    3     11           14    353    4      4
           15    490    5      7           15    420    4      5
           16    448    4      9           16    134    3     18
           17    165    3      5           17    312    4     11
           18    563    5      2           18    293    4     16


 Reference manual typed in by Rebel / FairLight on the 20th of nov.

 Greetings to: Gaston, Galactus, Sauron, Ice-Brigade, Rastan, Sensei,
               The Baron, Zelnik, Animal, Coke, Bruse Li, Rygar,
               Splatt, In Decent, Marshal, Action Man, Slayer & Ted!

 Ps. MIF and AIK Sucks!!
