
                   THE ULTIMATE PLAYERS GUIDE TO: GODS


GENERAL ADVICE
--------------
Gods is split up into four levels with each level containing three worlds.
There is more than one way to complete each world and no world needs to be
fully completed to finish the game. Additionally, there are many hidden
puzzles and sections which can provide rewards. Some worlds have short cuts
which enable the level to be completed quickly but you may lose out on
treasure and other bonuses by taking them. It's up to you to experiment
with the game to find out what is best to do.

MONSTERS
--------
All the monsters encountered in Gods have attributes that define their
weaknesses, strengths and behaviour. The hit point "HP" attribute sets how
many times a monster must be hit before it dies. A weak monster would have
perhaps 10 hit points where a stronger creature could have 250 or more. As
you progress thru the game you will notice that the monsters become more
intelligent. This means that they will be more effective at carrying out
their objectives to steal treasure, kill or avoid you. It's not wise to
attack thieves as they're usuall helpful.

WEAPONS
-------
Weapons also have attributes which define their behaviour and
effectiveness. The weapons hit point score determines how powerful it is.
For example, to kill a monster with 20 hit points would require 20 throws
of a one hit point weapon (a knife for example) or 4 throws of a five hit
point weapon (like a fireball). Weapons which go past walls are generally
more effective. Overall, the value of the weapon reflects its usefulness.

POTIONS
-------
Correct use of potions can be helpful in completing many sections in Gods.
You can normally only carry three items so don't buy to many potions in the
shop, leave room for other objects necessary for solving puzzles.

POWER POTIONS
-------------
These are used to increase the effectiveness of weapons. Buying or picking
up a power potion increases the damage done by ALL of your weapons. The
same effect can be achieved by getting multiples of the same weapon.
Considering power potions effect all the weapons, they are obviously a far
more economical way of increasing weapon hit points than buying or picking
up multiples of the same weapon.

EXTRA LIVES
-----------
Additional lives are found in treasure rooms but they can also be awarded
for clever play and scoring points. Extra lives can also be given to a
player that is doing badly.


WONDERFUL WEAPONS
-----------------

Type               Cost       HP     Stop on Walls    Stop on Monsters
----               ----       --     -------------    ----------------
Knife              2,500       1          YES               YES
Throwing Star      5,000       2          YES                NO
Mace               7,500       3          YES               YES
Axe               10,000       4           NO                NO
Fireball          12,500       5          YES               YES
Hunter            15,000       5           NO               YES
Magic Axe         15,000       3          YES               YES
Spear             17,500       6           NO                NO
Time Bomb         20,000      20           NO                NO
Lightening Bolt   30,000      25           NO                NO


POWERFUL POTIONS
----------------

Type                Description                              Value
----                -----------                              -----
Chicken             Restores energy                            650
Apple               Restores energy                          1,000
Weapon Arc          Standard                                 1,000
Weapon Arc          Intense                                  1,000
Weapon Arc          Wide                                     1,000
Bread               Restores energy                          1,300
Small Health        Restores energy                          4,000
magic Potion        Freezes Aliens                           4,000
Shield              Invunerability                           5,000
Magic Wings         Effects Familiar                         5,000
Power Potion        Increases Weapon Power                   6,000
Large Health        Restores Energy                          8,000
Starburst                                                   10,000
Power Claws         Effects Familiar                        10,000
Power Potion        Increases Weapon Power                  12,000
Shield              Reduces Damage                          20,000
Extra life                                                  20,000
Familiar                                                    30,000

In Levels Two, Three and Four, the powerups increase in value 17,500 for a
small and 32,000 for a large.


BOUNTIFUL BONUSES
-----------------

Treasure                Value
--------                -----
Pile of Coins               2
Crystal                    75
Jewel                     150
Small Bag of Gold         200
Large Bag of Gold         400
Gold Plate                400
Necklace                  500
Diamond                   500
Gold Mask                 800
Water Crystal           1,100
Fire Crystal            1,500
Iron Treasure Chest     1,000
Steel Treasure Chest    2,000
Gold Treasure Chest     3,000


WALKTHROUGH
-----------

Level 1

World 1

The first world of the game is used to enable the player to get used to the
control method and to solve some simple puzzles.
The first key the player will need is the treasure key to open the treasure room.
The world key is in the treasure room and opens the door to the end of the
world.


Hidden puzzles

I. Short cut.

Reset the levers I & 2 to move block I. This will reveal a water Crystal and
power-up and telepod the player to A.

2.Special bonus.

The second puzzle is progressive, in the sense that the by finding one hidden
puzzle the player will then be able to find the next. There are four pads to the
puzzle.
1. Blow up the trap with lever 4 and then pull lever 3 to reveal a iron treasure
chest.
2. Reset lever 4 and pull lever 5 to get a fire Crystal.
3. Pull lever 7 within 2 mins. from game start to make platform 2 move.
4. Press hidden switch 1 to get fire Crystal.
5. Finding these four puzzles will mean that you can find the final pad of the
puzzle in W2.


World 2

Get the trap door key on the left of the screen to open the trap door on the
right.
Make sure that you go over the top platforms as the bottom route is more
difficult but will give you bonus crystals.
Collect the vase and take it to the stores at the bottom of the map, making sure
that you collect the room key on the way. Get the world key from stores to exit
on the right

Hidden Puzzles

To get to the treasure room.

I.Kill the monsters on the ledge to the right of lever 3 to receive a trap door
key. This will let you close the trap door above lever 9 by pulling lever 4. You
will then be able to jump down and open the treasure room door.

2.Push all 4 hidden switches to open the 4 trap doors which form the base of
the treasure room. All treasure will then fall through onto the floor beneath the
room.


The Shop

Buy shurikans and normal arc.


World 3

Pull switch 2 to close the trap doors and blow up the spike in the pit.
Get the giant jump jump up the trap doors.
Alternatively you can wait for 2 minutes and a teleport Crystal will appear to
move you up, although you will not get the special bonus.
Get the trapdoor key on the top left platform to open the trap door to the right.
Go up the ladder which lead to the towers.
Go up the ladders to the bridge and jump across the platforms to the left to
collect the trap door key.
Go right and collect the teleport key.
Open the door by pulling lever Ii and this will teleport you to the platform on
the far left of the map.
Collect the door key.
Go right and pull lever 7 and drop down through the trap door.
Pull lever 8 to teleport you to the top door on the right.
Pull lever 9 to enter the treasure room and collect the lightening bolt.
Pulling lever 10 will open the door and take you back.
Collect the world key and go down the ladder and when you reach the bottom
platform you will receive a trap door key.
Pull lever 12 and go down to defeat the centurion protecting the temple.
Go up the ladder to the temple and enter the door to exit the level

Hidden Puzzles

1.To enter the treasure room.

Kill the wave of monsters which appear to the left of lever 3. They will give you
a trap key. Reset lever 3 and which will then give you a shield when you pull
lever 4 to protect you when you drop through the trap door to the treasure
room.

2.To move block 1.

You have to get to this point with more than 2 lives, and more than 80,000
points and within 140 secs. from the start of this world.

3.Special bonus.

Kill the centurion without collecting the lightning bolt to receive a gold treasure
chest.


Boss guy

The Centurion is the easiest of the bosses. Watch the Centurion as he throws
out fireballs and note the point where they bounce the highest. This is the
place you should stand to kill the Boss without getting hit.
Move backwards and forwards at the same time as the Centurion, keeping the
same relative position in order to avoid being hit.


Shop

In the shop you should buy the Magic Eye and spend the rest of your money
on Power Potions
Level 2

World 1

The World Key to exit world one is located in the GEM ROOM. It is situated
on top of a platform, some distance above ground level. The key is much too
high to reach by normal means.
The block that the key rests on may be lowered by bringing three gems to
this room. You must bring the gems in the correct order. Ice, fire then water.
When lowered, collect key and exit World 1 through the door by lever 4.


Hidden Puzzles

1. To get to the treasure room.

When you first start Level 2, walk to the right and press hidden switch 1. This
will open a trap door below.
Walk left and kill the two centurions. If you have more than one life they will
reveal a gold treasure chest key. Collecting this key will also trigger traps
throughout this world.
Climb down into the chamber below the one you started in and walk right
until a thief appears. Leave the thief to jump up and steal the shield potion
sifting behind the traps on the platform above. Now use the gold key to lure
him back down and kill him to get the shield. Climb up past the traps. Pull
lever 1 to reveal a treasure key and a thief to collect it for you. Make sure
your shield has run out before pulling the lever or it will kill the thief.
The treasure room is entered through the door to the right of lever 5.

2. To enter the bonus room

1. Experiment with lever 3. Make sure you have enough energy before
entering.


World 2

The most direct route through the pits is as follows.

Climb down the ladder to the platform where the narrow arc rests. It is
usually better to ignore the narrow arc token if you already have a standard
arc.
Walk to the right hand edge of the platform and jump onto the ladder to your
right.
Jump onto the platform by lever 1.
Press lever 1 to blow up the trap below.
Climb back down and land on the platform below.
Go down the ladder to the right. Get off at the first opening on your left. This
is pit 1.
Blow up the traps by pulling lever 2.
Get the room key

Return to the ladder and climb back up to the top, exiting to your right.
Keep walking along this platform to the right and drop off the edge.
You are now in pit 2. Walk right and up the ladder.
Walk right and jump over the gap.
Go right and down the next ladder and collect the teleport key.
Go to lever 6 and pull it. This closes the first trap door in pit 3.
Drop down.
Pull levers 7, 8 and 9 to close each new trap door in turn, allowing you to
progress to the bottom of pit 3.
Open the two side doors to your right and go through the door facing you
between levers 11 & 12. This will teleport you to the top of pit 4.
Enter the door to the right of lever IS and collect the world key from the ship
room.
To exit the world, climb down to the bottom of pit three and open the left
hand door. The World exit door is along the corridor to your left.


Hidden Puzzles

To get to the treasure room.

There are three chalices lying around the pits. Take them to the ship room to
receive a treasure room key. The treasure room is entered through the door to
the left of lever 3.


The Shop

Buy spears and Power Potions.


World 3

World 3 is split into two halves. The mosaic puzzle and the candle puzzle.

The Mosaic puzzle.

You start in the Mosaic Room. There are four pieces of mosaic which you must
find and bring here.
Pick up the first piece from the right hand side of the room and walk left to
replace the first piece of mosaic.
Pull lever I.
Kill the two centurions revealed and collect the trap key.
Reset lever 1 to reveal a moving block.
Jump onto the moving block and pick up the door key.
Pull lever 2 to reveal the hidden door.
Pull lever 3 to move block 1.
Reset lever 2 to open the door.
Along this corridor are four rooms. These are the Crypt, the Apothecary, the
Wizards Study and the Armoury.
In these rooms are several objects. The Globe, the Skull, and the Jar of Herbs

To find the missing three pieces of the mosaic, take the Skull to the Crypt, take
the Globe to the Wizards Study and take the Jar of Herbs to the Apothecary.
The quickest route is, Armoury, Crypt, Apothecary, Wizards study.
Return all three pieces of mosaic to the Mosaic room and a teleport stone will
appear.
The telepod stone will take you to the second pad of World 3.

The Candle Puzzle.

Walk left killing all monsters until a trap key is revealed.
Return to lever 15. Pull lever 15 and moving block 2 will rise from the floor.
Jump onto the moving block and go up the ladder.
Climb up the ladder and kill the wall monster to reveal a spear token.
Pick up the trap key and climb back down the ladder.
Walk left to lever 17 and pull it.
Climb down the ladder. Walk right. Jump over the trap and pull lever 18. This
closes the trap door underneath lever 19. Climb back up and jump onto the
trapdoor underneath lever 19.
Use levers 19 and 20 to close trap doors and make your way up. Collect the
trap key on The left.
Jump onto moving block 3 and ride it towards the right.
Jump up onto the ledge and retrieve the candle.
Go to lever 22 and pull it to move block 4 and climb down through the opening
revealed.
Make your way to the Study. The candle reveals the door key here.
Go to lever 26 and pull it to gain entrance to the Dragons Lair.


Hidden Puzzles

1.To get the gold cross.

Reset levers 19, 20 and 21. This will destroy the traps which prevent you from
reaching the gold cross. The gold cross is very useful if taken to the right
place.


The Dragon

Alternately duck and shoot to kill the Dragon. Don't force him too far over to
the right or, when he dies, the treasure revealed will drop off the bottom of the
screen and be lost.


The Shop

During the first world of Level 3 you will almost certainly have to pick up a
mace which will cancel your spears. Sell the spears now by buying one
throwing star. Spend you money on fireballs and save the rest to spend in the
next shop

Level 3

World I

In this world you have to find the mace, power-up and weapon arc to get the
world key from the large treasure room.

Go right and down the ladder.
Go up the next ladder and down into the pit to the right.
Kill the monster to get the time-bomb.
Go up and right and pull lever 2 to move block 1.
Go down and pull lever 3 to open the trap door above.
Throw the bomb down twice to kill the bee hive.
Drop down and pull lever 4.
Go right and pull lever 5 to get the maces and door key.
Go to lever 8 pulling lever 7 on the way, through door and up to the three trap
doors.
Pull lever 12 to teleport to get the gold bowl.
Go to lever 15 collect the teleport key and pull lever 15.
Go through the door and collect the power-up and treasure key.
Go to lever 20, pull to open the door and reveal the wide arc.
Stay near the door so that your weapons will break the blocks in the ceiling to
make the zap, energy and gold key drop.


Hidden puzzles

1.To find The shortcut.

There is a shod cut to jump the world which can be reached in two ways.
Go down to just beyond lever 1 and then return to the start.
Collect the trap key.
Go to below block 2. The trap key will make this move.
Go up and walk along to the right.
Pull lever 23 and collect the maces, treasure key and wide arc.
Go the final room and you will receive a power-up.
The second method to move block 2 is related to doing things the hard way.
You must not pull lever 1 and reach block 2 in a shod time.

2.To find hidden treasure.

Look to the ceiling of the final room.


The shop

Buy power-up

World 2

You have to collect the fire, ice, and water gems to illuminate the lights in the
central room.
The fire gem will be stolen by the thief at the top of the second ladder.
Go to lever 7 and enter the door.
Pull lever 8 to open the trap doors above.
Kill the thief and take the gem.
Exit through the door by lever 9.
Go back to the light room and up to lever 13.
Enter the room and pull lever 14 to open the door.
Pull lever 16 and walk left to collect the shield.
Pull lever 15 to move block 3. (This will allow you to go to the treasure room)
Reset lever 14 to open the trap door on the left and collect the ice gem.
Go left and down the first ladder.
Pull lever 20 to move block 4 up and 21 to open the trap door.
Down the ladder on the right.
Pull lever 19 and reset to blow up the trap.
Collect water gem.
Return to the light room to exit.


Hidden Puzzles

To find the massive treasure chest.

By lever 17 there is a hidden switch, press this and find the other two in W3 for
massive bonus.

To stop The thief.

The thief which steals the fire gem can be stopped with a freeze alien potion
purchased from the shop or zapped by pulling lever 1.


World 3

The first pad of the puzzle is to find and collect two vessels and take them to
the final door. Do not pull any of the levers that you are not told to.

Go right and down the first ladder.
Collect the flask and go up to lever 11.
Up the ladder and across to collect the ceramic pot.
Down and along to lever 8.
Pull to get trap key.
Pull lever 9 and jump up to collect the world key.
Back down and reset lever 8 to exit

Hidden Puzzles

I.To find extra potions.

Pull levers 1 and 2 to see what happens when you pull levers 5 and 6 and
then try resetting them. Be careful of spikes appearing beneath you.

2.To get an extra life.

Pull lever 1, go right quickly and pull lever 4.

Boss guy

The Minotaur is fairly straightforward being rather similar to the Centurion in
L1. The added complication is that the Minotaur can jump on your head if
you're not careful.
When the Minotaur jumps, run underneath and behind him towards the right,
then repeat when he jumps back to the right.
To time the jump, watch for the minotaur stepping backwards. When he does
this, he will then step forward, shoot and jump.

The Shop

Buy maces, fireballs, hunters and Power Potions

Level 4

World 1

Make your way to the top of the room and destroy the block that the door key is
resting on.
Collect the key and pull lever 2. Go through the door.
Drop down through the opening above the trap. A moving block will appear
and save you from falling on the spike.
Go through the door on the right, jump across onto the ladder and climb down.
Destroy the blocks to your left then pull lever 4. Use the zap to kill the
monsters then climb back up the ladder to get the room key.
Go down to lever 5 and pull it to enter the trap room.
Quickly jump up to your left and pull lever 6. This stops the moving block from
knocking the world key into the traps. If it does you will need to get use the trap
key to get The bomb to destroy them.
Exit the room and then make your way up to the world end by lever 11.


Hidden Puzzles

1.To find a gold treasure chest.

Use the trap key from the trap room to move block 2 and go down into the pit.
There is a gold treasure chest here. You will be also find another trap key to
move block 3.


The Shop

Buy maces, fireballs, hunters and power potions.


World 2

In world 2 you must collect the three alchemical implements and return them
to the alchemists room.

Go right, down the stairs and jump onto the breakable blocks.
Walk right and be careful not to release the trapped monsters.
Down the ladder and collect the gold bowl.
Enter the room by lever 7.
Go lever 9 to blow up the trap collect the alien attract potion on the way.
Pull lever 8 to trigger the thief who will be carrying the pestle and mortar.
Go to lever 10 drop the potion to attract the thief.
Kill thief and take the mortar.
Pull lever 6, go left and pull lever 11 and drop down.
Go to the bottom of the map and collect the door key from behind the
breakable blocks.
Back to lever 12, pull, enter room and collect the lamp.
Pull lever 13 to reveal a trap key to move block 2.
Enter the Alchemists room collect the world key and exit the door to the right

Hidden Puzzles

I.To enter the bonus section.

There is a bonus section which can be entered by collecting the room key
from the section above the first door and pulling lever 1 once collected.

2.To find a free familiar

Collect the oil lamp from the bonus section and pull lever 4 to get a familiar.


World 3

In this world you simply need to find and collect the world key.

Go left and kill the dog which appears at the bottom of the first ladder to reveal
a spear. You will need to be carrying this when you pull lever 1 to move block
I.Reset lever 1 and go through the door to the left.
Go right and down the ladder.
Pull lever 2 then 3 and through the door to the right.
Go to lever 7 and pull it.
Return to lever 4 and go back through the door.
Collect the world key and go up the ladder.
This takes you back to the left of lever 2.
Make your way to lever 8, pull it to enter the final guardians room.


Hidden Puzzles

1.To get the treasure key.

When you get to lever 1, don't kill the thief and he will bring you the treasure
room key. You will find the treasure room by dropping down the trap door by
lever 7 and going through the door at the bottom of the pit.

2.To get The axes.

To move block 2 and get the axes you need to do the following.
You need to get the thief to get the mace from above levers 5, 6 and 7.
Pull lever 7 to open the trap door.
Pull lever 6 to move block 3 to knock the trap key into the pit below.
Reset lever 7 to close the trap door.
Pull lever 5 to open the trap door by the thief.
Wait for thief to collect the mace and come down to you.
Kill thief, collect mace.
Pull lever 7 to open trap door and collect the trap key.
You will now be able to move block 2 and use the mace to break the blocks to
allow the axes to be dropped. This will make it far easier to kill the final
guardian
