                                  MANHUNTER'S
                                    FIELD
                                    GUIDE
                            (Planet Earth Edition)
                                   by
                            The Order of the
                              ORB ALLIANCE
August 27, 2004
6am.
I am a Manhunter.  It's been two long, tedious years since the invasion. They
came suddenly, like a thief in the night...  it was all over by dawn's first
light.  I have no idea how the rest of the world is doing... outside
communication has been suffocated.

All of us are required to wear the designated uniform, brown robes, and we
must keep our faces hidden as much as possible.  Above all else, we are not
allowed to speak to each other.  To do so would mean certain death.

Most have given up, for fear of the aliens with their powerful technology
and deadly robots.

5:45pm.
New York has been devastated.  The invasion has taken its toll on the city,
damaging many structures.  Living conditions have steadily eroded.  Vandalism
has skyrocketed, and there is no longer any maintenance of the city or its
streets.  Most business have shut down; only a handful of small shops remain.
The larger buildings in town have been boarded up or taken over by the Orbs.
There are restrictions to traveling through the city, and most humans are
not allowed out of their confined designated areas.

August 28, 2004
5:15pm.
The Orbs have been working furiously since their arrival.  It is like they
are on a special mission of some sort.  I have noticed significant changes
in the atmosphere since their arrival.  Strange, rotting odors permeate the
air and an increasingly red tint has overtaken the skyline.  The behavior
of fellow humans has grown increasingly peculiar.  It's all a mystery to
me.

August 30, 2004
8:30am.
There are fewer people on the streets.  All of my friends have disappeared,
vanished into thin air.  I have looked for them where I could... I mean,
it's not like they had anywhere to go.

11:15pm.
There are rumors floating on the street of a secret society.  Humans who
have banded together to drive the Orbs from New York.  I have heard they
thrive underground, where the tracking disks cannot read their signal.

The tracking disks were surgically implanted in the backs of our necks.
It is now common knowledge that the Orbs have trouble with these disks.
Apparently the disks can only transmit the location but not the identity
of the user as expected.  Thus, the need for Manhunters.

August 31,2004
10:31pm.
A select number of humans were chosen by the Orbs to become Manhunters.
I have no idea how the selection was made or how I was chosen. Tomorrow
is my first day on the job... and I have no clue as to my destiny.  All
they have told me is to read the "Manhunter's Field Guide" which they
say will answer all of my questions...

                                MAN
                               HUNTER

                              New York

    This is an Edward Teach fast doc file. Presented as a service to the
    non-paying public.  Please distribute this file in any manner.

      CONGRATULATIONS

      on being selected for the esteemed position of Manhunter.  This
      guide will introduce you to all of the information you will find
      necessary to become an effective, loyal follower of the Orb
      Alliance.  Manhunter is the highest position a human can hold
      under the Alliance, so be grateful.

      Each day, you will be given an assignment by your sector's
      supervising Orb.  The assignments will involve tracking down
      humans who, in some way, have wronged the Alliance.  You will
      be given a 24 hour period to discover and report the human's
      identity so that he can be corrected.

      You have been issued one Manhunter Assignment Device
      (MAD). MAD is your link to the Alliance computer. With MAD,
      you can access the tracking records associated with your current
      assignment as well as the Human Database Service.  As
      Manhunter, you are allowed to travel to locations pertinent to
      your current assignment.  DO NOT STRAY OR LOITER.  Always
      conduct yourself in a manner suitable to your position. Treat
      your fellow earthlings with the indifference they deserve.

                                                      by
                                                The Order of the
                                                  ORB ALLIANCE
                        page -2-

      MANHUNTER ASSIGNMENT DEVICE (MAD)
      MAD is a small, portable apparatus linked by radio transmission
      to the Alliance computer.  Mad has two functions:
                             Info and Tracker
      INFO: This function provides access to limited information on
      all humans currently residing in the Planet Earth city of New
      York.  After pressing the INFO button, type in the full name of
      the human.  The Human Database Service will then provide your
      MAD with information (Address, ID numbers, etc.) of the
      selected humans.  After receiving information, you may select
      REPEAT to try another name or select EXIT to leave the program.
      If you accidently type in the wrong name, you can try again or
      type BYE to leave the program.

               +-------------+                +------------------+
               |             |                | Name: Joe Blow   |
               | (picture of |                | Address: Unknown |
               |    MAD)     |                | Age: 27          |
               |             |                | Job: Janitor     |
               |             |                | ID: NCC-1701     |
               +-------------+                +------------------+
                    MAD                              INFO

      NOTE: The Orb Alliance has authorized Manhunters to visit
      any address furnished by the info system.
 
                       page -3-
      As a Manhunter, you are required to record all pertinent data
      that you discover during your investigations.  Luckily, info
      provides a means to enter this data through its Autoscan
      feature.  Whenever important information is picked up by a
      Manhunter (important documents, notes, etc.),  Autoscan
      examines the data and stores important information into
      memory for future access.  To observe this data, select INFO
      from your MAD and type NOTES in place of name.

      TRACKER
      All human movement is recorded in the Human Tracking
      Records database of the Alliance computer.  Due to the low
      priority placed on these records, tracking information on each
      human is only available from shortly before the time of the
      alleged criminal activity to a time period not extending beyond
      the end of that day.  Due to unforseen difficulties with human
      tracking disks, the targeted human's identity is not recorded.
      Also, tracking of a target is cut off if the human should venture
      under earth soil.  However, this practice is strictly forbidden and
      should not hamper your investigations.

      One function of MAD is to tap into the appropriate human
      tracking records for your current assignment.  When MAD first
      accesses tracking records, it will determine and then "tag" the
      most appropriate human target and signal.  A playback will then
      begin of that target's movements throughout the city.  During
      playback, MAD will also display any other human targets that
      come in close contact with the tagged human target.  You may

                        page -4-
                +--------------------+          +-------------------+
                |                    |          |                   |
                |  ( Picture of a    |          |  ( Picture of a   |
                |     Maintenance    |          |       Guard       |
                |       Robot        |          |       Robot       |
                |                    |          |                   |
                +--------------------+          +-------------------+
      tag any of these human subjects that you feel may be beneficial
      to your investigation.  To tag a new target, simply place your
      marker over the desired subject and press Enter.  The yellow
      rotating target should change to the subject you have chosen.
      You may replay tracking records as often as you find necessary.
      Manhunters are authorized by the Orb Alliance to visit any
      location that a tagged target visits.

      NOTE: Experienced Manhunters have found that the most
      efficient way to use the tracker is to watch it until it terminates
      transmission.  Proceed to replay the transmission, closing MAD
      after the target leaves each location.  Travel to the location
      shown and investigate.
                        page -5-

      SIGNAL TRACKER
      This is a recently installed feature that allows the recording of
      various signals entering and leaving the Alliance central
      computer.

                 +--------------------------------------+
                 |                                      |
                 |                                      |
                 |    ( Picture of Signal Tracker )     |
                 |                                      |
                 |                                      |
                 +--------------------------------------+

      The Alliance central computer contains a Signal Analyzer which
      resides in its I/O buffer.  Once playback begins, the Analyzer
      determines if a tagged signal contains restricted information.
      ANY TAGGED SIGNAL CONTAINING RESTRICTED MATERIAL
      MUST BE INVESTIGATED.  However, since the analyzer is in an
      experimental stage, a certain amount of manual control is
      necessary.  A signal must first be tagged by the Manhunter
      before it can be analyzed.  To tag a signal, place the marker over
      the signal you wish to be tagged and press Enter. The signal will
      change color when it has been tagged.  After a signal has been
      tagged, it is automatically fed into the Analyzer. If the analyzed
      signal contains restricted information, the signal can then be
      traced back to its source by your MAD tracking device.  After the
      traced signal leads you to a suspect, you will follow normal
      Manhunter procedure to complete your investigation.

                        page -6-

                           MANHUNTER OVERVIEW
   A Sierra 3-D Animated Adventure Game, simply stated, is an
   interactive movie where you become the main character. In this game,
   the main character is a Manhunter, an agent of the future who spies on
   fellow humans for an alien empire.

   Each 3-D Animate Adventure Game has a main goal, and yours in
   Manhunter is to track down humans for the Orb Alliance, learn the
   whereabouts of the human underground, and ultimately discover the
   true purpose behind the alien invasion.  You will need to move
   stealthfully and wisely, as time is quickly vanishing for America and its
   citizens.

                        TIPS ON PLAYING MANHUNTER

1. HOW TO MOVE AROUND
   Basic instructions on how to interact with this game are included in
   this manual and the reference cards enclosed.  For those who are
   not sure of what to do, there is a WALK THRU included at the end
   of this manual.

2. KEEP YOUR FACE COVERED AND YOUR LIPS TIGHT
   Due to the dangerous nature of this adventure game, you will want
   to save your game often.  Follow the instructions on your
   Manhunter Quick Reference Card to SAVE GAME after you have
   made important progress in the game.  SAVE GAME whenever
   you encounter a potentially dangerous situation.

   If you do encounter danger, or fail to complete all the required
   tasks to get past a given obstacle, you can follow the instructions
   on your reference card to RESTORE GAME to the place you were
   at when you last saved your game.  Intelligent use of this function
   has spared many a Manhunter from having his position terminated
   permanently.

                        page -7-

   Note: Manhunter: New York employs a convenient feature that
   automatically gives you a second chance after you have
   encountered the most grisly of situations (namely, a gruesome
   death!).  This feature allows you to face the most unexpected of
   conclusions without requiring you to replay the entire game.

3. KEEP YOUR EYES OPEN
   Look at and examine everything you can.  Watch closely those
   around you.  Pay close attention to detail.  There are many clues,
   both visual and symbolic, which will help you succedd in your
   quest.

4. TEAM UP AGAINST THE ENEMY
   This orb-infested metropolis can be one mean place for a
   Manhunter to live.  You may find it helpful to play Manhunter with
   a friend.  Different humans come up with different ways to
   interpret clues, and besides, it makes life a lot more fun.

5. GOT YOUR BACK AGAINST THE WALL?
   If you have tried every trick of the trade and still can't get anywhere,
   don't panic.  Even expert Manhunters have been known to get
   blown to shreds.  It's just part of the job.

   For this reason, hint books are available for all of Sierra's 3-D
   Animated Adventure Games.  You can order the hint book for this
   game by using the order form in the package.  Hints can also be
   obtained by calling the Sierra Support Line at (209) 683-6858
   (8 a.m. - 5 p.m. PST) or by having your computer call the Sierra
   Bulletin Board Service at (209) 683-4463.

                        page -8-
                           MANHUNTER WALK-THRU
                           

        MANHUNTER IS A UNIQUE SIERRA 3-D ANIMATED
        ADVENTURE, USING AN OBJECT ORIENTED INTERFACE.
        THE FOLLOWING WALK-THRU IS PROVIDED TO
        FACILITATE YOUR UNDERSTANDING AND ENJOYMENT
        OF THIS NEW INTERFACE. THE CONTENTS OF THE
        WALK-THRU INCLUDES HELPFUL SUGGESTIONS THAT
        EXPERIENCED ADVENTURERS MAY NOT WISH TO SEE.
        CONTINUE READING ONLY IF YOU ARE HAVING
        DIFFICULTY PLAYING MANHUNTER.

                        page -9-
   The title screen opens by showing the invasion of New York City.
   Press ENTER or the SPACEBAR to bypass the title screen.

   Your adventure begins two years after the alien invasion.  It is your
   first day on the job.  You are rudely awakened by the sector's
   supervising Orb, who gives instructions for your first day's
   assignment.

   "Attention Manhunter!  There was an explosion at Bellevue Hospital!
   Ivestigate."
   Press ENTER when you are ready to proceed. (Note: In most
   situations, the SPACEBAR will perform the same function as
   ENTER.)  Your character gets out of bed and turns on the lights. He
   takes his Manhunter Assignment Device (MAD) and turns it on. The
   computer reads "ALERT". Press ENTER. The computer responds,
   "Tracker has locked on Target, Location: Bellevue Hospital."
   Press ENTER.

   The yellow target is the person you are currently tracking. Remember
   to always watch where the targets go and what they do.  When the
   computer is finished tracking, you will receive a message. The
   computer reads, "Target signal lost. Tracking terminated."
   Press ENTER.

   Select TRACKER again.  After the target leaves the hospital, you will
   zoom out to see the target as it travels on the city map. Press C to close
   the computer.

   You are now viewing the travel map.  Locations you are authorized to
   investigate are indicated by a blinking square.  Your current location is
   indicated by an X.  The blue/red circle is your marker.

   Trace the path of you target to investigate the locations he has visited.
   To go to Bellevue Hospital, move the marker down until it hits the
   bottom of the screen.  The screen will flip to reveal the next portion of

                        page -10-
   the map. You will see Bellevue Hospital blinking. Position the marker
   over the hospital blinker. Press ENTER to travel there.

   Now you are standing in front of Bellevue Hospital. Move your
   marker around the screen to reveal various messages.  Position the
   marker near the bottom of the right wall and it will change into an
   arrow. Press ENTER.

   You are now standing where the target bombed the wall of the hospital.
   Press ENTER to go inside.

   Positions the marker over the toe of the corpse and press ENTER. Take
   note of the victim's name (Reno Davis). You may press ENTER to
   back out of this view.

   Next, position the marker over the corpse's face and press ENTER.
   Watch this scene until the baby Orbs attack your face.

   Note: You can avoid death by pressing ENTER to back out of this view
   just before the Orbs eat your face.

   After you die a message will be displayed.  Press ENTER to return to
   the game.  You are now outside the hospital again. Press TAB key
   to display your inventory. Select MAD. Select INFO. Type: Reno
   Davis.  Press ENTER.  Select EXIT.

   Select TRACKER. You may watch the target at the hospital again or
   press S to skip ahead and watch your target's movements after departing
   the hospital.

   Watch the target travel through the city.  The Tracker will zoom in to
   Trinity Church.  After the target leaves the church, press C to close the
   computer.

   Press F3 to travel.

                        page -11-

   Move the marker down to the location of Trinity Church.  Press
   ENTER to travel to the church.

   Position the marker over the front door of the church.  Press ENTER.

   Position the marker over the area where the target went (the candles on
   the left side of the room).  The marker will change to the magnifying
   glass. Press ENTER.

   Position the marker over the matches and the marker changes into a
   hand. Press ENTER to take a match.

   The marker changes into a match. Position the marker over a candle
   wick.  Press ENTER to light the candle.

   Note: Later in the game you will receive a clue on what you should do
   at this location.

   Select MAD from your inventory.  You will reveive a message that the
   signal is too weak.  Maybe you should go outside to use it. Press
   ENTER to continue.  Press ENTER to back out of the scene.  Press
   ENTER again to leave the church.

   Select MAD from inventory.  Select TRACKER.

   Watch the church scene again or press S to skip.

   The tracker proceeds to a bar in North Brooklyn.  Watch where the
   target goes once he has entered the bar.  When the target leaves, press
   C to close the computer.  Press F3 to travel.

   Find North Brooklyn and travel to the bar.

   Position the marker over the door and press ENTER.

                        page -12-

   Position the marker over the video game at the left side of the room and
   press ENTER to play the game.  You will be interrupted by an
   unfriendly group of bar patrons.  Watch the scene until it is your turn to
   throw the knives at the bartender.  The object is to land a knife between
   each of his fingers (four total) without missing.  Press ENTER to throw
   a knife.

   Throw a knife outside the hand area. You will be thrown outside.
   Go back inside and position the marker over the knife table. Press
   ENTER. This time, throw a knife and hit a finger.

   After you die, press ENTER to try again. Aim carefully, and you will
   soon be successful.

   Afer winning the contest, watch carefully the signal that the bartender
   gives you.  This will prove useful later.

   Now that you have proved your skills to the thugs, you will be able to
   play the video game undisturbed.

   Press ENTER to play the video game.  Read the instructions.

   To move your character through the video game, use the arrow keys
   (left, right, up and down).

   Now you are on your own!  Good luck on your adventure!

  P.S.  Be sure to watch for clues as you play Manhunter. Many objects in
  the game have a symbolic significance, and may be useful for more than
  one purpose. Keep an eye out for strange or unusual things that may
  occur in the game.

