			 STARGLIDER 2  

Taken from an ST SEWER SOFTWARE docs disk. Edited by Parasite. 

Control Devices 
The Icarus can be controlled by either the mouse or a joystick, and
additional keys are used for features such as weapons selection, and utility
functions. The mouse should be connected to the first port and the
joystick to the second port. 
Mouse Control 
The mouse controls the Icarus in the most direct and responsive way -
moving the mouse left and right makes the Icarus roll - you can roll the
craft all the way round by 360 degrees, or simply fly upside down
(but remember to take your InvertoGrav headache tablets first). Move the
mouse forwards to make the nose of the Icarus dip and fly downwards, and pull
back on the mouse to raise the nose, and make the Icarus pull up. To fire
the currently selected weapon, press the left mouse button. The right
button is the Icarus' speed control - when pressed down, pushing the mouse
forwards makes the craft accelerate, and pulling back makes it decelerate.

Joystick Control 
Operation of the joystick follows the same principles as the mouse, except
that since it is centrally sprung, fine control of the craft is not as
effortless as with a mouse. Pushing the joystick left and right causes the
Icarus to roll, and pushing forwards and backwards causes it to accelerate 
and decelerate. To fire the currently selected weapon, press the fire button
As there is no second joystick button, speed control is slightly different 
when using a joystick. STARGLIDER 2 uses a joystick control known as One Hand
Mode, and this basically makes the one fire double as both mouse buttons. To
accelerate and decelerate, simply hold down the fire button and push the
joystick button forwards and backwards. Alternatively, One Hand Mode can be
switched off from the Options Menu, and weapons can be fired by pressing the
Space Bar on thekeyboard - this will stop unwanted firing of weapons when
altering the Icarus' speed. 

Keys
STARGLIDER 2 utilises a number of keys, some of which need to be used
frequently, and others only once during a game, or possibly not at all. 
They are as follows: -

Game control keys 
Select weapon SHIFT 
Fire weapon SPACE or mouse/joystick button
Stardrive ON/OFF D 
Identify object under cross-hair I 
Audio analysis of nearest object A 
Status Report R 
Tractor beam ON/OFF T 
Rotate the tractor beamed object left/right < and >
Move tractor beamed object towards craft M
Collect tractor beamed object C 
Toggle Fixed/Floating cross-hair sights F
Toggle patchwork landscape ON/OFF P 
Toggle the projected shadows ON/OFF S Abort game ESC

Pause game BACKSPACE 
Keys operative when game is paused : Inventory mode I

Give object (to cooperative depots) G Exit Inventory mode E

Jettison object J 
Continue game <Any other key> 
View keys

These keys allow you to select the position from which the Icarus is
displayed and viewed. The craft can either be seen from inside the
cockpit, or as an outside view - it is best to experiment with the various
options. Keys prefixed with the letter n denote the numeric keypad: 

Cockpit view 1
Cockpit view - Icarus locked to Z- axis 2
Cockpit view - Icarus locked to X- axis 3
Cockpit view - Icarus locked to Z and X axes 4
Outside view 5 
Outside view - Icarus locked to Z axis 6
Outside view - Icarus locked to X axis 7
Outside view - Icarus locked to Z and X axes 8
Toggle the Cockpit/Outside view of the Icarus. ENTER
The numeric keys select different positions for both the inside and
outside view. For outside views, most of the options are disabled whilst
inside a tunnel network. 
Left rear view n1 
Rear view n2 
Right rear view n3 
Left view n4 
Down view n5 
Right view n6 
Left front view n7 
Front view n8 
Right front view n9 
By using the following keys, you can define a completely custom viewing
position.

Rotate view left - Cursor Left 
Rotate view right - Cursor Right 
Rotate view up - Cursor Up 
Rotate view down - Cursor Down 
Move viewpoint further from Icarus - Move viewpoint closer to Icarus + or 0
Utility Functions 
The following function keys perform utility tasks.
Sound effects ON/OFF F1 
Save game position to disk F10 
To save a game position, you will need a blank disk. STARGLIDER 2 uses its
own custom format, so do not read or write to this disk using the normal 
filing system.

Options Menu 
Press the Space Bar while the title screen is being displayed to reach
the Options Menu. This allows you to define or select a number of user
options, as follows:- 
0 Select joystick ON/OFF 
1 Select one-hand-mode ON/OFF 
2 Select Fixed cross-hair sight ON/OFF
3 Cross-hair autocentre X,Y,XY,OFF 
4 Change mouse scaling 
5 Load a saved game 
6 Load the hi-score table 
7 Display the hi-score table 
8 Painting with Rolf 
9 Restart an interrupted game 
All of the above are self explanatory except option 8. As a bonus, you are
able to examine all the shapes in STARGLIDER 2, rotating them, changing their
size, and painting with them, with fine control over the cycle sequence of
animated shapes. Use the mouse to move the shape around the screen. To make
the shape larger and smaller, hold down the right button and move the mouse
backwards and forwards. The various feature keys are as follows:-

Rotate shape forwards and backwards in X-axis - X and S
Rotate shape forwards and backwards in Y-axis - Y and T
Rotate shape forwards and backwards in Z-axis - Z and A
Stop shape rotating P 
Reset shape to start position R 
Cycle through the shapes < and > 
Start animation, cycling forwards - Cursor Up
Start animation,cycling backwards - Cursor Down
Single step animation one frame forwards - Cursor Right
Single step animation one frame backwards - Cursor Left
End animation sequence E 
Draw with a shape/clear screen toggle D Alter scale of objects n0 to n8
Return to Options Menu - ESC 