                   STARGLIDER II - The Solution.

Typed in by H.M. Edited by PARASITE.


It's a good idea to familiarise yourself with the controls of the Icarus
by simply flying around for an hour or so. In this time you can observe
the layout of the Solician System, the position of the planets and the
moons and the locations of the more obvious objects that are needed.

When you are ready to begin the mission, restart the game  from scratch
and fly to one of the tunnel entrances on Apogee (85-52 or 82-34). Follow
the tunnel and head for the hangar at 67-30. Here, the Apogean technicians
ask if you want them to build you a neutron bomb. You wont get very far if
you don't so answer 'Y'. They then provide an interplanetary shopping list
of the items required.

Many of these are simply collected from sites around the system, while
some are obtained by traiding with the Solicians at other underground
depots within the system. Alternatively a few sorties amongst pirate ships
can also prove to be extremely worthwhile; smaller objects such as
Castrobars and Vistan wine can be collected using the tractor beam from
the floating debris of a recently blasted pirate vessel.

Collecting these items is relatively simple - it's more a matter of time
than trouble.However, constant attacks from the Ergons have to be fended
off, and the Icarus' shield will need to be replenished from time to time.
The easiest way of doing this is to collect asteroids from the asteroid
belt around Apogee and Milliway. However, this can be slow and a fiddly
process; if you are in dire need of energy, fly along the power lines that
are found on most of the planets (there's on Apogee that runs from 54-00
to 54-90). If you happen to hit one of the pylons and the power stops
simply fly into space. On your return the pylon has been replaced and the
powerline is back up and running.

Although the Icarus can be refuelled by skimming, this method leaves a lot
to be desired: more often than not you find the display panel dripping
down the screen. It also takes a lot longer than any of the other methods,
and leaves you under constant attack from space pirates.

Volcanoes are similary dangerous: if the Icarus drops too low, there's a
good chance ofbeing damaged by one of the large molten rocks that are
constantly being ejected from the volcanoes mouth.

Defending yourself from Ergon attack is made a lot easier by having fire
and flee missiles at your disposal. These are only available from the high
technical level depots on Milliway's moons (located at 55-04). Four are
available at a time and are simply collected by using the tractor beam.

The Icarus can also be repaired by fling into the same depot on Wackfunk
(WACKFUNK?? TRY THIS WANKFUCK!! an anagram!! **H**). Here the technicians
give the ship the once over for exchange of goods of any description.

The Ergons soon start bulding their defensive beam weapons on the moons of
Milliway. To avoid the Icarus being vaporised before getting anywhere near
the space station these installations have to knocked out with bouncing
bombs. The bombs are available from the depots on Castron (located at
05-00 and 66-00). Again four are waiting to be picked up, and are simply
installed in the Icarus by using the tractor beam.

Obviously, it is difficult to knock out all of the installations, but as
long as there are less than seven beam weapons active, the Icarus is safe
to launch it's final assult on the Ergon space station.

Re-fuel the Icarus, re-arm with missiles and beam the neutron bomb aboard-
this should be sitting in the Apogean depot waiting to be collected. Set
a course for the yellow moon of Q-Beta. When the Icarus is near, the
'moon' dissapears to reveal the partialy constructed space station
protected by six sentinels. These must be destroyed using fire and flee
missiles, which in turn means a return trip to the moons of Milliway to
restock.

Having cleared the Ergons last line of defence, select 'Neutron Bomb', aim
up the crosshairs on the station and let rip. Mission comlpete.

THE OBJECTS NEEDED

PROFESSOR HALSEN TAYMAR -
The prof is 'burning rubber' in an Emma - 2 hover carr on the surface of
Broadway. His driving is rapid and erratic; it may take a while to get him
locked in the tractor beam. Because the tecnicians on Apogee can't start
the bomb without him he should be the first on the list.

CASE OF NUCLEAR FUEL -
Nuclear fuel can be found lying around on Aldos, at various locations (e.g
75-09). The case should be no trouble to find, but if a spare Icarus
pilots couch is at hand it can be swapped for a case of nuclear fuel on
Esprit.

CRATE OF CASTROBARS -
Castrobars can be 'stolen' from pirate vessels, or obtained on castron
(depot at 66-00). Trees are readily available on the surface of Enos.

CASK OF VISTAN WINE -
Again found in the cargo hold of pirate vessels or obtained on Castron
(depot 5-00) by swapping it for a bouncing ball.

LUMP OF MINERAL ROCK -
Simple: go to Q-Beta - there are plenty just dotted around the landscape.
In the unlikely event that they cannot be discovered, the Solicians on
Apex will provide one inexchange for a pyramid. These are to be  found on
Enos (24-12) and Vista (23-74).

ASTEROID -
The asteroid belt is to found situated between the orbits of Milliway and
Apogee ( flying through this area with stardrive active is fraught with
danger: the ship is continually brought to a halt when you hit one of the
large rocks. To lower the chance of collision move the mouse in a circular
motion while flying along).

FLAT DIAMOND -
These are available from the Solicians on Questa, as long as they have an
Ergon Mechanical whale in return. The whales are to be found swimming in
the upper atmosphere of Milliway, travelling between Q-Beta and Aldos and
also near the planet Castron.

CLUSTER OF NODULES -
There are plenty of these dotted around the surface of Dante. However,
they can be obtained in exchange for en Ergon Mechanical Duck from the
Solicians on Synapse. The ducks are usually to be seen whenever space
whales are around.

ERGON MINI ROCKET -
The Ergons disreguarded weaponry is to be found at a number of locations,
such as Castron (87-50), or Aldos (22-10). The rocket can also be
purchased for the bargainn price of one asteroid on Westmere.
