                       CONQUEST OF CAMELOT
                KING ARTHUR - The Search For The Grail

Typed By THE TWINS.  Edited by PARASITE.


INTRODUCTION
The trick with writing a story or game based upon a popular set of
legends is to walk that thin line between tradition and originality.
What I've striven to do with this game is to balance history and myth,
fact and imagination, entertainment and information.
 Rather than adhere slavishly (and boringly) to specific stories, I
drew upon the essence of the Arthurian legends and other mythologies to
create a blend which I think will challenge you and entertain you at
the same time. You will certainly encounter ideas that you never found
associated with a King Arthur story anywhere else.
 Before you start, take the time to read through this book. Much of the
information is vital to playing the game. You will find tips and hints
that will help you get the most enjoyment from your game. I guarantee
you'll discover new and unusual pieces of history, not just in this
book, but hidden layer within layer throughout the game.
 A word  about copy protection as an experiment, we are not doing any
copy protections on these disks. It would be quite difficult to play
the game without this book, but there is no foolproof method of
preventing someone from pirating a game.
 Pirating can vary from the person who deliberately sets out to
distribute a game to as many people as possible to the player who
casually loans his disks to a few friends to copy.
 But consider this: my husband and I have spend a year of our lives
working virtually every day of every week to create this game for you.
I have done uncountable hours of research, laboring over every detail,
to make this the best game I can produce.
 Every time someone pirates this game whether to one person or to
hundreds, that is money that we the creators will never see. That is
money we don't get to pay rent or buy food or get our cars fixed or,
perish the thought maybe see a movie once in a while.
 A pirate who steals this game is not simply depriving a faceless
corporation of a few measly bucks. He or she is taking significant
earnings away from the creative people who have worked harder than that
pirate can imagine for an entire year.
 That goes for any game and any software that is sold. It's no
different than stealing a book from a bookstore or stealing a painting
from an art gallery. Pirating is not cute or clever or justified. It's
theft, pure and simple. And we, the creative people who pour our hearts
and souls into our work, do not appreciate it.
 As a purchaser you can spread this message to those who think it's
okay to pirate, which is the first step in preventing it. And that WILL
be appreciated.

Thank you, Christy Marx

THIS IS HEREBY DONE !


KING ARTHUR: HISTORY VS. MYTH
 Archaeological diggings at a hill known as Cadbury in central southern
England have revealed the remains of a fortress dating roughly to the
6th century, based on an even older Roman fortress before that. Cadbury
is a location many associate with one of the most famous locations of
all times - Camelot.
 There are many indications that there was a powerful war leader in
that time by the name Arthur, Artur, Artos, Artorius and other
variations. A Welsh history from about 850 A.D., the Historia Britonum,
provides the earliest written record of him. The 10th century Annales
Cambriae even mentions his date of death as 537 A.D.
 He was not known as King Arthur, though at one point he seems to have
 had the title "emperor." During his time, the Roman rule of Britain
had ended, leaving behind a chaos that would evolve into the Dark Ages.
The historical Arthur was noted as probably having a Roman education
which he used to create a swift and effective body of cavalry and would
have been the last major figure of power before post-Roman Britain sank
into its decline. This made his lustre as a warlord shine all the more
in the darkness that followed.
 Whoever this historical figure may have been, he would be amazed to
find himself identified with the Arthurian legends we know today.
 The mythological story of King Arthur says that he was the son of
Uther Pendragon. King of the Britons. Arthur was conceived and born in
Tinragel then was taken away and raised in secret by the wizard Merlin.
When Arthur reached manhood he proved he was the true king by drawing a
sword from a stone. This sword broke in battle and he received another
sword, Caliburn (later renamed Excalibur), from the Lady of the Lake.
 He gathered valiant knights around him and built a round table so they
would all sit as equals around it. He built the magnificent stronghold
of Camelot. He married Gwenhyver (or Guinevere) and though she loved
him, she also loved one of his greatest knights, Sir Launcelot,
Launcelot loved her and was forever torn between this love and his
loyalty to Arthur.
 Arthur fought and won many battles, but was finally mortally wounded
by his own nephew-son, Mordred. He was not burried, but was carried
away by three Fairy Queens on a boat to the mysterious island of
Avalon, where he was to be cured of his wounds and then sleep until the
day he was needed again.
 This barely scratches the surface of a rich and complex body of myths
which have combined and grown over the centuries into the Arthurian
Cycle. Very ancient Welsh and celtic legends link him to the
constellation of Ursa Major (The Big Bear because his name in Welsh,
Arth Vawr, meant Heavenly Bear, meaning that he was a god in his
earliest form.
 Numerous other gods and goddesses lost their divinity and became his
knights, rival kings and various ladies. An early Welsh Goddess,
Gwenhwyiar, resurfaced much later as Arthur's queen, Guinevere.
 There are scores of Welsh and Celtic legends about larger-than-life
heroes who go upon monumental quests, rescue or win their ladies, and
search for miraculous treasures. They faced giants, visited magical
islands and fought in the underworld. Most of these colorful tales
eventually found their way into the Arthurian Cycle in one form or
another.
 In the 2nd century A.D., 5.500 Sarmatians who were defeated by the
Romans in a battle on the frozen Danube were sent in exile to
northwestern England to serve as border guard against the Scottish
Picts in the north. These Sarmatians originally came from southern
Russia and were roving, marauding mounted warriors complete with
chainmail and heavy lances.
 More significantly, they brought with them an entire body of tales
about a heroic king named Batradz who had a body of loyal knights, a
sword in a stone, a miraculous cup, and a magic sword that had to be
thrown into an enchanted lake as he lay dying. All of these elements
and more seem to have been assimilated into the Arthurian legends.
 From the 12th century enward, the legends acquired the themes of
chivalry and couraly love, devotion to a particular lady which arrived
along with the Normans who invaded England and brought with them the
troubadour influence of France. During this time, Launcelot appeared
significant figures, caught in the tragic love triangle with Arthur.
At this late point also the Round Table was added to the stories.
 And finally, around the same time, the Arthurian legends were
Christianized and, later still, the quest for the Grail was attached
and gained dominance. The theme of sin causing the downfall of Camelot
and the need for the healing grace of the Grail are now completely
associated with King Arthur, yet they are very late additions.
 Century after century, storytellers continue to embellish and
embroider this facinating mix of history, mythology and pure fantasy.

THE GRAIL AND THE SACRED CUP
 Grail derives from the Medieval Latin word "cratella" meaning "bowl".
One of the Medieval writers of the Arthurian saga, the 12th century
French Poet, Chretien de Troyes, left behind after his death an
unfinished poem about a knight-hero named Perceval. This poem was taken
up and used by later writers until it became the story of Parzifal and
his encounter with the Holy Grail and the Spear of Longinus (the Roman
spear to pierce Christ in the ribs as he hung on the cross).
 In 1485, the most famous of the Arthurian storytellers, Sir Thomas
Malory, wrote Morte d'Arthur (The Death of Arthur) in which the search
for the Grail became a permanent part of the legends affixed to the
court of Camelot.
 In these various versions, the only knight who ultimately proved pure
enough to see or possess the Grail were Parzifal (Percival), Sir Bors
and Galahad.
 The basic myth says that Joseph of Arimathea was a priest of Jerusalem
who spervised the burial of Jesus. He acquired the cup from which Jesus
drank at the Last Supper and into it gathered drops of Christ's blood,
either while Jesus as on the cross or during his burial, Joseph brought
the Grail to Britain where he establish a shrine on Glastonbury Tor.
 But there is no doubt that the Grail legend itself is firmly based
upon the much more ancient myths of the Sacred Cup of the Goddess. In
virtually every mythology in every culture, the cup or chalice or
cauldron is a symbol of feminine power, the ability to create life and
grant fertility.
 Just as the Grail was reputed to have the power to heal and give
endless food and drink, so were there endless older myths of a Sacred
Cup or cauldron which gave life or other boons.
 It appeared in the earliest legends of Egyptian, Babylonian, Indian
and Norse mythology where it was linked to a Goddess (or a female
trinity as a Triple Goddess) who gave birth to the universe and often
there were three cauldrons from which various gods and heroes would
drink to gain power or knowledge.
 To the Celts, it was the Cauldron of Regeneration in which injured or
slain warriors could be resurrected. In other tales, it was a bowl that
provided endless food and drink that was wrested from the underworld,
or the cauldron of a giant.
 To the Welsh, it was one of the Thirteen Treasures of Britain, the
enchanted Cauldron of Inspiration that would not cook the meat of a
liar or a coward.
 To the Sarmatians, it was "Amonga," a magic cup that gave endless
rood and drink and also would not boil the meat of a coward.
 Even the Christian legend of St. John the Evangelist associated him
with rebirth from a boiling cauldron until his festival was expunged
from Christian calendars in 1960.
 That the Grail is really the Sacred Cup of the Goddess is inescapable,
even in the name of Joseph of Arimathea. The literal translation of
"Arinmathea" means "belonging to the Goddess-mother Mari."

THE MESSAGE OF THE ROSE - THE LANGUAGE OF THE FLOWERS
From the earliest days of civilization, flowers have been given special
meanings. For example, the rose has a long association with love,
sexuality and with many goddesses, the Virgin Mary, and the science of
alchemy.
 Not only the flower itself, but often the color indicated what
significance was attached to it. There are many legends of flowers
springing up where drops of blood or tears fell to the ground. What
follows is a list of flowers and their meanings:

Almond blossom.....................................................hope
Anemone..................................................withered hopes
Aster......................................................afterthought
Buttercup.........................................memories of childhood
Carnation....................................................heartbreak
Columbine.........................................................folly
Chrysanthemum yellow......................................slighted love
Chrysanthemum white...............................................truth
Cornflower.....................................................celibacy
Daffodil..........................................................death
Forget-me-not.................................................true love
Hyacinth............................................sport, game or play
Lily, white......................................................purity
Lily, yellow..................................................falsehood
Orchid........................................................seduction
Periwinkle, blue.......................................early friendship
Periwinkle, white...................................pleasures of memory
Poppy, red..................................................consolation
Poppy, scarlet...................................fantastic extravagance
Snowdrop............................................hope or consolation
Sunflower...................................................haughtiness
Tulip, red..........................................declaration of love
Tulip, yellow.............................................hopeless love
Violet.............................................................lust

SIX GODDESSES

ASTARTE
 Astarte was the Goddess of Byblos from which cur word for "bible"
originated. She was known as the Star, the Moon the Heavenly Virgin,
Queen or the Stars and the Queen of Heaven. Some of her other names
were Tanit Ishtar (the star) Astroache (Queen of the Stars) and Attar-
Samayin (Morning Star of Heaven) The Israelites burned incense, offered
wine and baked cakes in her honor. Her great shrines were at Byblos and
Aphaca (known today as Afka). King Solomon built a sanctuary to her in
Jerusalem. Her priestesses were famous astrologers.

ATHENE
 She is best known as the Greek Goddess sacred to the city of Athens.
Originally, she was a Libyan goddess imported from North Africa. In the
Greek legends she was born from the head of Zeus. She has dozens of
attributes which include warrior-goddess and protectress of heroes;
patron of architects, sculptors, spinners and weavers; protectress of
horses and oxen; and a counsellor-goddess famed for her wisdom. The owl
is associated with her. Sulphur is an element identified with her
because it was believed that burning brimstone (sulphur) would drive
away the evil spirits that caused disease. Athene's major temple was
the Parthenon which means "virgin-house."

CERES
 Was a Roman Goddess with the title "Mother of the Harvest." Her Greek
name was Kore the virgin aspect of Demerer. She ruled over all grains
and the words "cereal kernel cere corn" comes from her name. Her major
early-summer festival was called the Cereaha celebrated on April 19th.
Farmers performed rituals for her to safeguard their crops. One of her
other titles was "Ceres the lawgiver" and her priestesses were
important in founding the Roamn legal system. Her sacred "matronne"
(women of rank) ruled Rome from 599-219 B.C.

ISIS
 She was the major Great Goddess of Egypt, known also as Hathor. She
was considered the mother of every other god created in the primevel
time. Two of her titles were "Giver of Life" and "The One Who is all."
She gave birth to the sun. The Pharaohs believed she would grant them
immortality by resurrecting them after death as she did her husband
Osiris. Some Egyptians believed that the yearly flood of the Nile was
caused by her teardrop. She was enormously popular with the Romans who
called her "the eternal savior of the race of men." Her son was Horus,
the Egyptian Divine Child. The word "pastor" comes from "Pastopheri"
meaning "servants of Isis."

VENUS
 She was the Roman version of Aphrodite. Her sign represents the female
gender in both plants and animals. She is associated with love and
sexuality. Mirrors are objects considered sacred to her. the morning
and evening "star" (in reality; a planet) was named after her. Her
sacred day was Friday on which her followers would eat fish. Julius
Caesar built a marble and gold temple in her honor. In alchemy, her
symbol stands for copper. Her main shrine was on Cyprus which was a
center for mining copper. She was once also a Lady of Animals and the
word "vension means literally "Venus' son."

VESTA
 She was the Roman version of the Greek goddess, Hestia. She was
considered the "guardian of the innermost things" - home and hearth.
Her name comes from "vas" a Sanscrit word meaning approximately
"shinning." She personified earth, and domestic and religious fire. The
perpetual sacred fire of her temples was tended by six women known as
the Vestal Virgins. Young girls who entered this order took strict vows
of chastity for thirty years after which they could marry. The fire of
her hearth/altar was considered to be the center of the earth.

THE MYTHOLOGY OF APHRODITE

APHORODITE
 She is a fundamental Goddess known by scores of names with dozens of
attributes. Aphrodite is simply the name by which she came to be known
via the Greeks, but she was an ancient deity even then. She was
variously considered the goddess of life, ideal or chaste love,
sexuality, marriage, childbirth, fate, death, arts, crafts, culture,
hunting and the sea. She was truly a queen among goddesses.
 From 70 A.D., her cult dominated the main temple of Jerusalem. There
is a legend that in the 4th century the Empress Helena, mother of
Constantine found the true cross (on which Christ was crucified) hidden
in a crypt beneath the temple of Aphrodite in Jerusalem.
 The sacred number of Aphrodite is six. Symbols associated with her and
representing fertility are the dove and the apple.

APHRODITE AND ADONIS
 Adonis was a youth of such extraordinary beauty that he was adored by
Aphrodite. When he was but a child, she hid him inside a chest which
she left in the care of Persephone, goddess of the underworld. But
Persephone disobeyed Aphrodite and opened the chest. Seeing Adonis, she
too fell in love with him. When Aphrodite cam to fetch the young man,
Persephone refused to release him.
 The warring goddesses ended their dispute when Zeus decreed tha Adonis
would spend half of the year with Aphrodite and half of the year in the
underworld with Persephone.
 But Ares, the god of War, was jealous of Aphrodite and her passion for
Adonis. He transformed himself into a boar, waited for the young man to
go hunting, and fatally gored him, leaving Aphrodite to bitterly mourn
her lost love.

APHRODITE AND PYGMALION
 Pygmalion was a sculptur who lived on the island of Cyprus. Aphrodite
was displeased with the women of his town, who had refused to accept
that she was divine. She cursed them so that they lost all sense of
modesty and would give themselves to any man who came along.
 Because of their behavior, Pygmalion disdained the company of women,
but nonetheless he devoutly worshipped Aphrodite. He remained alone,
carving his statues. One such statue, carved of ivory, was of a woman
so beautiful that he fell deeply in love with her image. But she was
only a statue until Aphrodite heard his prayers and pleas. Pygmalion
was rewarded for his devotion. The cold ivory turned to warm flesh as
his statue came to life and embrached him.

APHRODITE AND HIPPOLYTUS
 Hippolytus was the son of King Theseus. He was an avid hunter who rode
out every day in his chariot. Aphrodite loved him because of his
handsome form, but he scorned her love and the love of all women.
Furious at being rejected by the handsome prince, Aphrodite caused his
stepmother, Phaedra, to fall in love with him, but Hippolytus rejected
her as well. Phaedra convinced Theseus that his son had raped her
whereupon the King called upon the sea-god, Poseidon, to exact
vengeance. While Hippolytus drove his chariot along the shore of the
Saronic Gulf. Poseidon sent a fierce bull from the waves to panic the
horses. They stampeded and Hippolytus was dragged to his death behind
the chariot.

PLEASE NOTE: There is a README file on your game diskette. It may
contain important information and instructions that were not available
at the time the documentation and other materials for this game were
printed. Failure to review the README file before installing the
program may cause unexpected results during installation, leading or
playing the game.

Installing The Game
 Note:RENAME your copies of all game disks to remove the words'COPY OF'
from the disk name. If the words 'COPY OF' are not removed from the
disk names of ALL the copies, the system will continue to ask for the
original disk, and will not run the game.

MOVING YOUR CHARACTER
 You may move your character on the screen with the [Arrow] keys, the
numeric keypad, the joystick, or the mouse. To halt your character's
steps with the keypad, press the number 5, or press the last used
direction key again. Do not attempt to move the character by holding
down  the direction key. This will cause the character to start and
stop continuosly, resulting in very slow progress.
 Using the mouse, position the arrow where you want the character to
move, then click the left mouse button (if your mouse has multiple
buttons).

MENUS
 When you press [ESC], a menu bar will appear at the top of your screen
with several menus that can be opened to show the command choices
available to you.

KEYS TO USE IN THE MENUS
 Use the left and right [Arrow] keys to open a menu, and the up and
down [Arrow] keys to highlight items within a menu.
 Press [ENTER] to select a highlighted command.
 Press [ESC] to return to the game without choosing a command.

GAME SPEED CONTROL
 At times it may be useful to slow down the speed of the game animation
in order to negotiate a tricky section, or observe something more
carefully. At other times, you may wish to speed up the game actions.
To increase or decrease animation speed, choose FASTER or SLOWER from
the Speed Menu, or use the [+] key to increase speed, the [-] key to
decrease speed, or the [=] key to return to normal animation speed.

SHORT CUTS FOR COMMON COMMANDS
 You can use function and control keys to short cut many common
commands.

[F1]            Help
[F2]            Toggle sound on/off
[F3],[Spacebar] Repeat previous command
[F5]            Save Game
[F7]            Restore (saved) Game
[F8]            Draw, Sheathe Excaliber (toggle FIGHTING mode)
[F9]            Restart Game (from beginning)
[Spacebar]      (in fighting mode only)...Swing Excaliber
[Shift]         (in fighting mode only)...Parry
[Tab]           Inventory
[Ctrl-I]        Inventory
[Ctrl-O]        Open Purse
[Ctrl-P]        Pause Game
[Ctrl-Q]        Quit Game
[+]             Increase Animation Speed
[-]             Decrease Animation Speed
[=]             Normal Animation Speed
[Ctrl-V]        Change Volume
[Shift-Click]   'Look' at an object (see below)

SHIFT-CLICK
Shift-Click is a feature that will allow you to 'look' at a person or
object using your mouse. Place the mouse arrow on the desired person or
object then hold down the [Shift] key and press the mouse button. You
will now receive a descriptive message.

PLEASE NOTE: Multi-button mouse users should use the RIGHT mouse button
and need not press [Shift].

USING YOUR TAB KEY
 While playing Sierra games, your [Tab] key will perform two major
functions. You will use it to review the items in your inventory, and
also (if you're not using a mouse) to select options from certain
menus. The following menus will require the use of the [Tab] key for
highlighting menu options:

Menu.....................Choose from
Restart Game.............Restart, Continue
Quit Game................Quit, Don't Quit
Save Game................Save, Cancel, Change Directory
[Death Message Box]......Restore, Restart, Quit

USING THE MOUSE (OPTIONAL)
 Your mouse will be useful to you in moving your character, and in
learning about your surroundings. To move your character using the
mouse, position the arrow to where you want the character to move, then
click the left mouse button. In many scenes, you can find out about a
person or object by using the [Shift-Click] feature described in 'Short
Cuts For Common Commands'. Also when a message box appears on your
screen prompting you to press a function key (such as [F6]), you may
point and click on the message box to produce the same results.

RETYPING COMMANDS
 If you wish to repeat a command select RETYPE from the ACTION menu or
press the [SPACEBAR] or [F3].

INVENTORY
 If you wish to see the items you are carrying, select INVENTORY from
the Action menu, press [Ctrl-I], or press the [Tab] key. A list of the
items you are carrying will be displayed. To look more closely at an
item, use your [Arrow] keys to highlight the item and press [ENTER]. A
picture of the item, along with a brief description, will appear on
your screen. Press [ENTER] or [ESC] to resume play.

PAUSING YOUR GAME
 If you wish to pause the game, select PAUSE from the Action menu, or
press [Ctrl-P]. Press [ESC] or [ENTER] to resume play.

SAVING YOUR GAME
 If you wish to save your game, select SAVE from the File menu, or
press [F5]. To allow for errors in judgement and creative exploration,
we recommend that you frequently save your game in progress, and that
you save several different games from different points as you play. You
will always want to save your game before encountering potentially
dangerous situations. You should also save your game after you have
made significant progress.
Please note: If you're playing from diskettes, you must have a separate
formatted diskette ready before you can save a game. Since each disk
can only hold a limited number of games, we recommend that you have
more than one disk formatted, in order to assure adequate space for
save game storage.
 If you choose to save games to your hard disk, we suggest that you
create one or more save game directories or folders on your hard disk.
See your computer's instructions for creating directories or folders.
You may name your saved games using standard English phrases. For
example, if you are standing on a sandy beach, you might call your game
'standing on sandy beach', or simply 'beach'.

RESTORING YOUR GAME
 Select RESTORE from the File menu, or press [F7]. You will be prompted
to select the game you wish to restore. (On a single drive system, you
will be prompted to insert your save game disk). Highlight the desired
game and select RESTORE. If the game you wish to restore is in a
different directory, select CHANGE DIRECTORY.
Please note: If you do not have a mouse, use the [Tab] key to toggle
between RESTORE and CHANGE DIRECTORY.

QUITTING YOUR GAME
 To stop playing, select QUIT from the File menu, or press [Ctrl-Q].

RESTARTING YOUR GAME
 If you wish to restart your game at any time during play, select
RESTART from the file menu, or press the [F9] key. The game will begin
again (INSERT GAME SPECIFIC INFORMATION).

TIPS FOR PLAYING CONQUESTS OF CAMELOT
 In this game it is important to look for visual clues and to gather
information. Anyone you meet might have vital clues. Don't hesitate to
ask characters about other characters or objects when you talk to them.
Keep pen and paper handy and be prepared to make notes along with your
maps.

COMMUNICATING WITH CONQUEST OF CAMELOT
CONQUEST OF CAMELOT understands many common verbs. Here are some you
might try:

        ASK             HIRE            SEARCH          MOUNT
        BUY             EAT             CUT             SIT
        THROW           CLIMB           GET             PUSH
        BREAK           USE             CLOSE           GIVE
        READ            STAND           DISMOUNT        DRINK
        OPEN            CALL            TAKE            DRAW
        LOOK            TRADE           FIND            HELP
        KNEEL           MOVE            PAY             PRAY
        KNOCK           KILL            SELL            TALK
        SMELL           STAND           WEAR            KISS

 You can generally interact with the game by typing simple commands
consisting  of as little as a noun and a verb. For instance, the
command 'sit in the chair' can be shortened to 'sit in chair',
or even 'sit'. Unless otherwise directed, follow all typed commands
with [ENTER].
 Many characters in the game will have information of one kind or
another for you. To talk with a character, type: 'talk to [character]'
for example: 'talk to man'.
 You may encounter objects you need along the way. To take an object,
type: 'take' or 'get [object]'.  For example, 'take the note'.
You will need to use the objects you acquire as you explore. You can
try different things such as typing: 'use the [object]', or 'give the
[object] to [character]'.  Different approaches to a puzzle may bring
about a different outcome.
 Pay close attention to details. To examine objects, type 'look at the
[object]', (for example: 'look at the table'), or press [Ctrl-L],
then type the name of the object.
 To get a general description of the current room or scene, type
'look around', or use your mouse to choose LOOK from the menu.
 A message window will appear after you enter each command, and at
other times during the game. When you have read the message, press
[ENTER] to remove the window and resume play.

USING YOUR MAP
 When you leave Camelot, you will use a map to travel to other
locations important to your quest. Use your cursor keys to click with
your quest. Use your cursor keys or click with your mouse to select a
location and read the message that accompanies it. A polite message
will inform you if travelling to the location you have chosen will not
benefit you. If this is the case, press [ENTER] or click again with
mouse to remove the message and choose another location on the map.
When you have chosen an area that will be helpful to your cause, press
[ENTER] to travel to the desired location. You won't be able to move
to another location while a message is on the screen.

LOOK everywhere. Thoroughly explore your surroundings. Open chests and
drawers. Look closely at all objects you encounter for valuable objects
and clues.

EXPLORE each area of the game very carefully. Search every area of the
game. Be careful!! There are many hazards awaiting you!

DRAW A MAP as you progress through the game. Make a note of each area
you visit, and include information about objects found there and
dangerous areas nearby. If you miss an area, you may miss an important
clue!

GET objects you think you will need. You will come across a number of
objects that may be of use to you later. You can see an inventory of
items on hand by pressing the [Tab] key at any time.

USE the items you have picked up to solve problems in the game, or to
help you to make progress and discover more clues.

BE CAREFUL, and remain alert at all times   disaster may strike in the
most unlikely of places.

USING EXCALIBUR
 When battle is imminent, you can use the [F8] ey to draw Excalibur.
Remember that once you have drawn your sword you are committed to
battle. Your only options at this point are to fight, press the [F8]
key to sheathe Excalibur, or restore to a previously saved game.
NOTE: When in Fighting Mode, typed input will not be accepted until you
hit the [F8] to sheathe Excalibur.

USING A SPEAR
 If you should find yourself armed with a spear instead of your sword,
hit the [SPACEBAR] to use your spear at the right moment.

TO JOUST
 Your lance is controlled by your numeric keypad, and your shield by
the S, E, F, & D keys. See the illustration below for jousting
instructions.

        SHIELD          LANCE

        S=LEFT, E=UP    2=DOWN, 4=LEFT,
        F=RIGHT,        5=CENTER, 6=RIGHT,
        D=DOWN          8=UP

FIGHTING MODE
 In Fighting Mode (Excalibur is drawn), you will use the [Spacebar] to
swing your sword. The [Shift] key should be used to parry or block
with your shield. Use your [Arrow] keys or your mouse to move Arthur.
These rules apply generally throughout the game with the exception of
using a spear, jousting, and the Saracen Battle.

SARACEN BATTLE
 In your battle to the death with the Saracen, you face an opponent who
is well-armed skilled and cunning. Hitting keys at random will only
wear you down more quickly. Fight as though this were a real battle.
Observe what patterns your foe uses and learn to anticipate him.
Defending yourself with your shield is as important as striking with
your sword, Think, observe, and use strategy.

HOW TO FIGHT
 Your sword attacks and your shield parries (block the Saracen's
attack). You use all 9 keys on your numeric keypad and the letter "r"
on your letter keyboard.
NOTE: Once this battle has begun, you are committed to battle and your
only option is to fight to the death. [F8] (to sheathe sword) will not
work during this battle, nor will your cursor keys. You must remain in
Fighting Mode until you have won or lost.

ATTACKS AND PARRIES
 You have a total of 5 ATTACKS and 3 PARRIES available. The HIGH ATTACK
or PARRY is for the head and neck area. The MIDDLE ATTACK or PARRY is
for the middle body. The LOW ATTACK or PARRY is for the groin and thigh
area. You can also take one step backwards (RETREAT).

GREAT BLOWS
 You also have a GREAT BLOW HIGH and a GREAT BLOW LOW. These 2 attacks
are more powerful than a regular HIGH or LOW ATTACK, but they also take
more of your strength and will wear you down more quickly.
WARNING! It takes lonnger to prepare and land a GREAT BLOW and will
leave upon to a quick attack from your foe. Use a GREAT BLOW with
extreme caution and be on guard for a GREAT BLOW from the Saracen
against you. Once you have begun a GREAT BLOW you cannot stop it.

POSITION
 Do not get backed into a corner. If your stamina seems low and the
Saracen is close to giving you no place to retreat, press "r" on the
keyboard to swing around him and reverse positions.

STAMINA
 Your stamina is how long your strength can carry you through battle.
Your stamina level at the beginning of the battle can vary from high
to low. Your actions here and in earlier parts of the game will
determine your stamina level when you begin to fight and during the
fight.
 When you fight, each attack you make and each blow landed upon you
will reduce your stamina. Using a GREAT BLOW ATTACK will draw most
heavily of all upon your strength. Using lots and lots of attacks
without strategy will drain your strength quickly. Reversing position
lowers your stamina a little each time.

WOUNDS
 Both you and the Saracen are wearing armor, so even though it looks
like some of your blows have hit or that you have been hit, some have
been turned aside by the armor and done no damage. These are "glancing
blows" and do not count as injury.
 When you are hit and have taken an injury, you will see a flash on
that part of your body. If you land a blow and injure the Saracen. You
will see a flash on the part of his body that you have hit. The flash
tells you that an injury has been done. This also means that this is
where you or your enemy now has a weakness. You must protect your
wounded areas while trying to strike again at your foe's wounded areas.

 FIGHTER FACING RIGHT =======>
          +---+ +---+ +---+      <9>...........HIGH ATTACK
          | 7 | | 8 | | 9 |      <8>...........HIGH PARRY
          +---+ +---+ +---+      <7>...........GREAT BLOW HIGH
          +---+ +---+ +---+      <6>...........MIDDEL ATTACK
          | 4 | | 5 | | 6 |      <5>...........MIDDEL PARRY
          +---+ +---+ +---+      <4>...........RETREAT
          +---+ +---+ +---+      <3>...........LOW ATTACK
          | 1 | | 2 | | 3 |      <2>...........LOW PARRY
          +---+ +---+ +---+      <1>...........GREAT BLOW LOW

 <======= FIGHTER FACING LEFT
          +---+ +---+ +---+      <9>...........GREAT BLOW HIGH
          | 7 | | 8 | | 9 |      <8>...........HIGH PARRY
          +---+ +---+ +---+      <7>...........HIGH ATTACK
          +---+ +---+ +---+      <6>...........RETREAT
          | 4 | | 5 | | 6 |      <5>...........MIDDEL PARRY
          +---+ +---+ +---+      <4>...........MIDDEL ATTACK
          +---+ +---+ +---+      <3>...........GREAT BLOW LOW
          | 1 | | 2 | | 3 |      <2>...........LOW PARRY
          +---+ +---+ +---+      <1>...........LOW ATTACK

SARACEN COMBAT GRAPHIC
 The illustrations above show the two directions from which you can
fight during the battle, and how the ATTACKS, PARRIES and RETREAT work
on your numeric keypad. As you can see, the PARRIES do not change when
you switch from left to right or right to left, but your ATTACK, GREAT
BLOWS and RETREAT keys reverse position when you change direction.

WALK-THROUGH
 Sit patiently through the introduction to the game at least once and
pay attention to clues in both text and pictures.
 As the game begins, you are on a floor plan of Camelot. Use your
cursor keys or mouse to explore and discover which rooms may be
entered. You will use this map to enter a room or to travel from one
room or to another.
 A message window will appear afte yu enter each command. When you have
read the message, press [ENTER] to remove the window and resum play.
 Find Merlin's Room. Press [ENTER] once to remove the message and
[ENTER] once to remove the message and [ENTER] again to go there, or
click once on that room with your mouse.

Type 'look at the room'
Type 'look at the objects'
Type 'look at the wizard'
Type 'ask about Gawaine'
Type 'ask about Galahad'
Type 'ask about Launcelot'
Type 'where is the Queen?'
Type 'talk to Merlin'
 Leave Merlin's Room and find the Queen's Bower. Press [ENTER] to go
there.
Type 'look at the bower'
Type 'talk to the Queen'
 Press F3 a few times to continue talking to Queen until she seems to
have nothing more to say.
 Walk over to Gwenhyver.
Type 'kiss Gwenhyver'
 Go ahead, kiss her a few more times.
Type 'ask about Launcelot'
Type 'look at the rose'
 Walk over to the rose.
Type 'pick the rose'
Type 'ask about the message of the rose'
 Press the [TAB] key to view your inventory. You'll see that you now
have the rose in your possession.
 Press the [TAB] or [ESC] key to exit the inventory.
Type 'look at the rose' (when in the inventory)
 Press the [TAB] or [ESC] key to stop looking at the rose.
 You'll get a better look at the rose now that you have it. Leave the
Queen's Bower and try Merlin's Room again.
Type 'ask about thr Grail'
Type 'look at the map'
 Go over to the map in the back, lefthand corner of Merlin's room.
Type 'read the map'
 A close-up of the map will appear. While in Merlin's Room, this map
will give you information. When you leave Camelot, you will use this
map to travel to other locations. Use your cursor keys or click with
your mouse to select a location and read the message that comes up for
it. Use [ENTER] or click again with mouse to remove the message. You
won't be able to research another location while a message is on the
screen. Look for clues within the messages. You might even want to make
notes. Press F6 to Exit.
 Walk over to Merlin's desk on the right side of the room.
Type 'look at the desk'
Type 'look at the scroll'
Type 'translate the scroll'
Type 'take the scroll'
 Walk over to Merlin's alchemy table on the left side of the room.
Type 'take the beaker'
 Being the cautious type, you decide to save your game here.
Type 'take the flask'
 Don't panic. Merlin will listen to any reasonable apology. If you
really get stuck, you can restore to the game you saved just before
getting into trouble.
 Once you get out of this mess, continue to explore Camelot and don't
hesitate to question anyone you meet. Remember, you are a King with a
desperate mission.
Godspeed!


Heres page 7 of the manual for the protection check!

The message of the Rose:  Love is my shield

The language of the flowers. From the earliest days of
civilization, flowers have been given special meanings. For
example, the rose has a long association with love,sexuality and
with many goddesses, the virgin mary, and the science of alchemy.
Not only the flower   itself, but often the color indicated what
significance was attached to it. There are many legends of
flowers springing up where drops of blood or tears fell to the
ground. What follows is a list of flowers and their meanings.

Almond blossom - hope
Anemone - afterthought
Buttercup - memories of childhood
carnation - heart
columbine - folly
yellow chrysanthemum - slighted love
white chrysanthemum - truth
cornflower - celibacy
daffodil - death
forget-me-not - true love
hyacinth - sport, game, or play
white lily - purity
yellow lily - falsehood
orchid - seduction
blue periwinkle - early friendship
white periwinkle - pleasures of memory
red poppy - consolation
scarlet poppy - fantastic extravagance
snowdrop - hope or consolation
sunflower - haughtiness
red tulip - declaration of love
yellow tulip - hopeless love
violet - lust

End.
