                        ZAK MCKRACKEN SOLUTION

By COSMOS. Edited by PARASITE.


BEDROOM
In the bedroom open all the drawers and pick up the phone bill,the fishbowl
(including Sushi),and the kazoo. Go to the TV/kitchen and pick up the
cushion on the wall. Insert the TV plug into the power outlet then pick up
the other cushion and get the remote control to turn on the TV. After you
have watched the TV,open the cupboard and get the yellow crayon. Then get
the butter knife and the egg in the fridge. Go back to the bedroomand get
the cashcard from under the desk and tear off a piece of wallpaper near the
door. Use the crayon on the torn wallpaper and you now have a starnge map.
Go through the TV/kitchen and get the small key near the outer door. Then
go down the stairs and outside.

TO BAKERY
The bakery is just left of the stairs. Push the button three times until
the baker throws some bread at you then pick it up and head for 14th avenue

TO LOU'S LOANS
Buy the guitar,toolbox,golf club,noseglasses,hat and wetsuit with your
cashcard then go to the hair salon

TO HAIR SALON
Open the toolbox,and use the wirecutters to get the bobby pin sign, then
head back to 13th avenue

TO PHONE COMPANY
Wear the hat and noseglasses and pay your phone bill. The alien will think
you are one of them! Then get the application and use the crayon on it, and
then head for the mailbox at the bottom of the stairs outside your room.
Use the small key and place the application in the mailbox and close it.
Then go to the TV/kitchen and use the monkeywrench on the pipe under the
sink. Put the stale bread in the sink and turn on the button. Get the bread
crumbs and then use the fishbowl in the sink.(Sushi has a safe home and Zak
has a helmet) Then go to the bedroom and pick up the corner of the rug. Use
the monkeywrench on the loose floor boards and you now have a hole that
leads to the aliens secret room. Then go outside to the bus. Use the kazoo
to wake up the driver then use your cashcard in the reader.

TO SAN FRANCISCO AIRPORT
Buy the book from the devotee and use the ticket to seattle

IN AIRPLANE
After the stewardess has given you the peanuts, head for the toilet and use
the toilet paper in the sink. Turn the sink on and when it overflows push
the help button on the wall. Quickly head to the front of the plane and
open the micrwave oven,put the egg in it and turn it on (What a mess!). Go
back to the seats and when the stewardess starts cleaning the microwave get
the cushion and the lighter that falls out. Open all the bins until you
find the oxygen tank then sit down.

AT SEATTLE
Get the branch from the tree and give the peanuts to the squirrel. Use the
golf club on the loose dirt (I know the feeling) and head into the cave.
Use the what is function to find the birds nest and use it in the fire pit
with the branch and the lighter to start a fire. Go to the strange markings
and use the crayon on them. Once the door is open go in and use the remote
control to get the blue crystal.Then go back to San Francisco.

AT SAN FRANCISCO
Go to your mailbox and by this time a letter should be there. Its your KING
Fan Club Membership. Head for 14th avenue.

14TH AVENUE
Place the blue crystal in the slot in the red door. Annie will appear and
tell you her dream. Give Annie the butter knife and the rope. Switch to
Annie and look under the blotter to get her cashcard. Send her to Zak's
bedroom and use the rope in the hole in the floor. Switch to Zak and go to
London and through to Katmandu.

AT KATMANDU
Go right to the guard and give him the book and he will let you in to see
the guru who will tell you how to use the blue crystal. Then head to the
prison. At this point I suggest you save the game as the next part has to
be done with split-second timing. Take the flagpole and quickly use the
cashcard in the yak to escape before the policeman gets you. Go to London
and through to Zaire.

AT ZAIRE
Go to the Shaman and give him the golf club. He will show you a secret
dance which is in fact a combination to a door. Make sure you write it
down! Then go back to London and to Miami.

AT MIAMI
Give the book to the drunk and he will give you a bottle of whiskey. Then
buy a ticket to Bermuda.

AT BERMUDA
The pilot will give you a parachute and eventually you will get taken into
a spaceship. Note the combination the pilot uses. Then push the button on
the inner door to meet the KING. Show him your fan club membership and give
him the guitar. Then use the Lotto-dictor to get tomorrows winning numbers.
Head to the exit and use the same combination the pilot used. You will find
yourself in mid air so use the parachute and eventually you will land in
the ocean. The cushion will keep you afloat. Use the kazoo and eventually a
dolphin appears. At this point save the game. Use the blue crystal on the
dolphin and use the dolphin to quickly go underwater to the right side of
the seabed. Remove the seaweed and take the glowing device and quickly head
back up and give it to Zak. Switch back to Zak and by this time an alien
will appear and take you back to the secret prison. Don't worry as you have
Annie stationed above and when the alien leaves send Annie down to pull the
switch. When Zak has recovered go to the cupboard and get your artifacts
then go back up the rope with Annie. Give the whiskey to Annie. Then go to
Lou's Loans and buy a Lotto ticket. Use the numbers you got from the
spaceship. Then go to the airport and get a ticket to Mexico.

AT MEXICO
Go to the Mayan temple and enter. You will have to search in the dark for
torches to light with your lighter. Head towards the centre of the temple.
the green figures on the walls are the outer tunnels and head towards the
blue figures. This is a hit or miss affair but the fewer doors mean you are
heading towards the centre. Eventually you will find a room with a statue.
At this point switch to Melissa and Leslie on Mars.

ON MARS
Use the girls to get the boombox (Melissa),data tape from radio, and the
cashcards and fuse from the glovebox in the shuttle bug. Note the oxygen
tank. Make sure you use this before heading off. Take Leslie to the left of
the shuttle past the hut and use her cashcard in the monolith slot. Get the
token and go into the hut.Use the token to open the metal plate,take the
old fuse out and put the new one in. Close the Mars door and open the
hostel door. Go in and get the vinyl tape from the locker. Open the lockers
and get the flashlight. Then pull the covers on the bed and Leslie will
pick up the broom alien. Get the ladder to the right. Go back to the
shuttle. Give the vinyl tape ,ladder and torch to Melissa. Top up the
oxygen for both girls and the send Melissa right to the Mars door. Use the
ladder on the mars door and use the combination from the Shaman. There are
three buttons. Push left one once,right twice,centre once,right once and
centre once, and the door should open. Go to the Giant Chamber and to the
first door on the left. Use the vinyl tape on the data tape and place it in
the boombox. Use the stairs on the pedestal then turn on the boom box to
record. Touch the sphere on top of the pedestal and the door will open. Go
to the middle door and you will notice that the sphere is damaged. Turn on
the boombox to play and the door will open. Go to the third door and open
it with the ladder. Then go to the giant statue on the right and read the
strange markings. Make a note and send Melissa back to the shuttle. Put the
fuse back in the glovebox and use the oxygen. Switch back to Zak.

IN MAYAN PYRAMID
Use the crayon on the strange markings to make it the same pattern as the
one on mars. The statue will open and you can take the crystal shard. Get
out of the temple, heading to the outer doors and go back to San Francisco.

AT SAN FRANCISCO
Cash in your Lotto ticket and you should have 10,000 dollars extra. Go to
the airport and get a ticket to Lima.

AT LIMA
Put the breadcrumbs in the recepticle. At this point save the game. Use the
blue crystal on the bird and head to the LEFT eye of the Hill statue. Take
the scroll and quickly head back to Zak and give it to him. The alien will
appear again and take Zak back to the cell. Use Annie to rescue him as
before. Now take Annie and Zak to London.

IN LONDON
Give Annie the pole,wirecutters,two pieces of yellow crystal,scroll and
whiskey if she hasn't got them. Send Annie out the door to the guard.Give
the whiskey to the guard and when he falls asleep switch off the electric
fence. Go to the far right and use the wirecutters on the fence to get to
Stonehenge. Use the pole on the altar and place the two pieces of crystal
on the altar.Read the scroll and the crystal will be fused together. Take
it back to Zak and give it to him. Now send Annie and Zak to Cairo.

AT CAIRO
Send Zak to Zaire to the Shaman and he will teach him to use the yellow
crystal. Now using the map Zak can teleport to any of the platforms that
have not been damaged. Use it to go to Lima and get the candelabra from the
right eye. Then teleport to the Pyramid in Cairo. Use the lever to open the
stairs and light the torch in the lower room. Then go to the sphinx to the
strange markings.Switch to Annie and bring her there also. At this point go
to Mars and send one of the girls into the first room in the Giant Chamber
with the flashlight. Follow the maze until you come to a statue with
markings on it. These are the markings needed to open the sphinx. Send the
girl back to the shuttle and switch back to Zak. Use the crayons on the
sphinx markings and open the secret entrance. Follow the doors with a man
and a shining object on them to get to a secret room. Send Annie in on the
same path as she needs to decipher the hieroglyphics. Push the buttons in
the order required and then use the crayon to add to the wallpaper map. Now
send Annie to the pyramid making sure she goes out the same way as she came
in.(There is another secret room which holds the guardian who you don't
wish to meet) Send Annie up the secret stairs in the pyramid. Now get Zak
ready to go to Mars. On the wall there is another pattern needed on Mars so
make a note of it. Put the wetsuit on ,use the oxygen tank,and the fishbowl
with the duct tape. Put the fishbowl on and use the yellow crystal to
teleport to the Mars Face.

MARS FACE
Use the pattern on the markings and go through the centre door. Follow the
white doors and you will come out in the Giant Chamber. Go to the centre
door and get the ankh,then go back out to the right door to the force
field. Put the ankh in the panel and push the button on the machine. Then
get the keys(one of them will crumble) and go to the Shuttle. Make sure
everyone tops up with oxygen. Send Leslie to sweep the sand outside the
hostel with the broom alien. Bring everyone to the Monolith and buy tokens.
Make sure the girls have two each (for return fare) Take the tram to the
Martian Pyramid with Zak and the two girls.

MARTIAN PYRAMID
Assemble them all outside the door and get Leslie to sweep the sand with
the broom. Use the bobby pin sign to open the door and send them all in to
the sarcophagus. Use one of the girls to push the feet on the sarcophagus
and a secret stairway will open. Send Zak and the other girl up the stairs
then release the feet to close the stairway. Use the golden key in the
panel and position Zak in front of the power crystal. Get the girl to push
the button in the panel and quickly switch to Zak to get the power crystal.
go to the left of the room and get the girl below to push the feet again.
Bring everyone down and send the girls back to the shuttle before they run
out of air. Close the door on the shuttle remove their helmets and use the
controls to send the girls to earth. Teleport Zak to the secret room in the
pyramid in Cairo. Assemble the glowing piece,candelabra and crystals and
then use Zak and Annie to pull the switch on either side. Then sit back and
watch.
