              POLICE QUEST II--HOMICIDE OFFICER'S GUIDE

By TREVOR. Edited by PARASITE.


PERSONAL CONDUCT
The Lytton Police Officer must perform in a professional manner at all
times
Here are some of the qualifications which are expected of every police
officer:
COMMON SENSE-is the most important virtue an officer can possess.  It
will keep you alive and out of trouble.
ORGANIZATION-just the facts, and plenty of them.  You must keep them in
order and at your fingertips (on a note pad would be nice).
LOYALTY-a good police officer stands up for his department, his partner
and fellow officers.  Your life depends on them, and vice-versa.
OBEDIENCE-a good police officer carries out his orders willingly,
cheerfully, and promptly.
INITIATIVE-a good police officer is one step ahead and keeps an eye out
for jobs that need doing.  he shows that he can be trusted to perform
correctly in an emergency.
GUTS-a good police officer keeps going when the going gets tough.  he
doesn't know the words "I can't".
RELIABILITY-a good police officer does his job thoroughly.  He comes
through for you time and time again.
INTEGRITY-a good police officer tries at all times to keep a clean
record. he upholds the principles of his profession at all times.
FAIRNESS-a good police officer gives fair treatment to others and
expects the same in return.
HONESTY-a good police officer maintains the truth even when it may be
costly.
CHEERFULNESS-a good police officer keeps his head up even when facing
the stormiest of situations.
NEATNESS-a good police officer is proud of his uniform and what it
represents. He keeps it in immaculate condition.
SELF-CONTROL-a good police officer does not lose his temper.
PROMPTNESS-a good officer is quick to the scene of a disturbance, and is
always on time to meetings.

REQUIRED EQUIPMENT
Shoulder holster
Departmental issue hand gun
Handcuffs
Departmental issue ammunition clips
Patrol car keys
Departmental issue field kit which includes:
Fingerprint powder (dust).  Used for exposing latent prints.
Fingerprint brush.  For applying fingerprint powder.
Fingerprint tape.  For removal of (lifting) latent prints.
Casting powder.  Used to make liquid samples (footprints, tire tracks, etc.)
Glass vial.  Used to take liquid samples.
Eyedropper.  Used to transfer fluid into vial.
Plastic baggies.  Used to preserve and segregate various pieces of evidence.
Camera.  Used to take pictures of evidence, scenes of crime, etc.

STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURE
I.  RADIO PROCEDURES
    1.  Respond to all radio transmissions as required according to
        police regulations.
    2.  Avoid unnecessary radio transmission.

II.  SHOOTING RANGE PROCEDURES
     1.  Type LOAD GUN or use the function key listed in the pull-down
         menus to load your gun.
     2.  Type RAISE GUN or use the function key listed in the pull-down
         menus to raise your gun.
     3.  Use the directional keys to adjust your aim.
     4.  Type FIRE GUN or use the function key listed in the pull-down
         menus to fire your gun.

If the sights on your gun need to be adjusted, type ADJUST SIGHTS.  Use
the arrow keys to adjust the windage and the elevation screws.  Each
time you press an arrow key, the windage or elevation screw will rotate
one position.  With a little practice you can improve our sights and
your shooting accuracy as well.

III.  POLICE COMPUTER PROCEDURES
      1.  Turn on the computer.
      2.  The following prompt will appear:  COMMAND>
      3.  At this prompt, you may type in one of the following commands:

      dir-This command lists the contents of the current directory.  If
      the current directory contains subdirectories, use the "cd"
      command (see below).  If the current directory has accessible
      files, a box will appear around the first file name.  You may move
      this box to the desired file name by using the arrow keys.  Press
      ENTER when you have highlighted the desired file name.

      cd-This command changes the current directory to a subdirectory.
      After you have typed in this command, the computer will respond
      with:  DIR?>

      At this prompt, type the name of the directory you wish to change
      to, then press ENTER.  If you enter a name other than a valid
      directory name, the computer will return to its "root" directory-
      the directory displayed when you turned on the computer.

      NOTE:  Some directories require passwords.  If the PASSWORD:
      prompt appears, you must enter the correct password to gain access
      to that directory.

      quit-This command will allow you to exit the computer.  Type in
      this command when you are finished using the computer.

FELONY ARREST PROCEDURES
  1.  Before proceeding with arrest, your back-up unit must be staked
      out in close proximity.
  2.  Have weapon drawn at the ready.
  3.  Identify yourself as a police officer to the suspect.
  4.  Command suspect to keep his hands over his head.  If at any time
      the suspect drops his hands, prepare to take defensive action.
      a.  If the suspect flees, follow the suspect on foot.  Maintain
          radio contact if possible.
      b.  If the suspect takes aggressive action (e.g. reaching for
          weapon, charging you), take necessary defensive actions.
  5.  When it is safe, approach the suspect.  Handcuff the suspect.
      Always be prepared to defend yourself against hostile behavior.
  6.  Search the suspect.
  7.  Read suspect his rights.*
  8.  Transport suspect to jail.

|---------------------------------------------------------------------|
| "You have the right to remain silent.  What you say may be used     |
|against you in a court of law.  You have the right to an attorney.   |
|If you cannot afford an attorney, one will be appointed to represent |
|you before questioning, if you wish."                                |
|_____________________________________________________________________|
                                     *Miranda Ruling

THE USE OF FIREARMS (IN COURSE OF DUTY)
The discharge of a firearm at any person will be done only in life-
threatening situations.
a.  A police officer may use a firearm only in self-defense, when
    assaulted with a deadly weapon.
b.  A police officer may use a firearm when in fear of his life, or the
    life of another.

HOMICIDE INVESTIGATIVE PROCEDURES
I.   INITIATE THE INVESTIGATIVE PROCESS
     A.  The detective must have reason to believe a crime has been
         committed by one or more of the following:
         1.  Personal observation.
         2.  Statements of witness(es).
         3.  Conclusive and/or circumstantial evidence.

II.   ASSESS THE SITUATION
      A.  Use extreme caution during initial investigation.
      B.  Be on the alert for possible life-threatening situations.
      C.  Be ready to take appropriate action.

III.  CHECK VITAL SIGNS
      A.  If doubtful, treat the victim as alive.
          1.  Perform necessary first aid.
          2.  Notify emergency services.
      B.  Determine possible homicide
      C.  If the person is still alive, consider their dying
          declaration.
          1.  If death is imminent, accompany the victim to the
              hospital.
IV.   GATHER EVIDENCE
Note:  The detective must use extreme caution in order not to
contaminate or destroy vital evidence.
      A.  Search the surrounding area.
      B.  Recognize out of place, unusual, or damaged items.
      C.  Take photos as soon as possible.
      D.  Dust for prints prior to handling an object.
      E.  Collect appropriate samples.
      F.  Secure names of all persons at the scene of the crime:
              Officers.
              Witnesses.
              Suspect(s).

V.    NOTIFY THE CORONER
      A.  The coroner takes possession of all property and effects
          belonging to a deceased victim unless specified as evidence.
      B.  Request a copy of all available reports from the coroner's
          office to be sent to the police department.

VI.  CONDUCT INTERVIEWS
     A.  Identify yourself as a police officer.
     B.  Talk to all relevant persons in the area, conducting yourself
         in a professional  manner.  Take note of important information.
     C.  Observe the emotional state of the witness.
     D.  Follow up all possible leads.

VII.  ANALYSIS OF EVIDENCE
     A.  Submit all evidence to the police department's booking officer
         for processing.
     B.  All reports originating from outside agencies pertinent to an
         ongoing investigation will be routed to the investigating
         officer assigned to the case.

The following information is for reference use only.  Players will not be
able to input any of the following codes, but should be familiar with
them as they may be referred to during the course of the game.

RADIO CODES
rc10-1    Radio reception - poor
rc10-2    Radio reception - good
rc10-4    Received message
rc10-6    On the air - not available for call
rc10-7    Off the air - out of service
rc10-8    In service
rc10-9    Repeat message
rc10-10   End of shift - off duty
rc10-13   Weather check
rc10-15   Prisoner in custody
rc10-19   Return to office
rc10-20   Location
rc10-21   Use telephone
rc10-22   Cancel
rc10-23   Stand by
rc10-27   Subject check
rc10-29   Check for wants
rc10-35   Back-up requested
rc10-36   Confidential information
rc10-97   Arrived at scene
rc10-98   Cleared scene; available for call
rc11-41   Ambulance
rc11-44   Fatality
rc11-48   Furnish transportation
rc11-79   Injury traffic collision with ambulance responding
rc11-80   Traffic collision with major injury
rc11-81   Traffic collision with minor injury
rc11-82   Traffic collision property damage only
rc11-83   Traffic collision no details
rc11-84   Traffic control
rc11-85   Tow truck
rc11-98   Meeting
rc11-99   Emergency, officer needs assistance, respond Code-3

VEHICLE CODE
VC22348  No person shall drive a vehicle upon a highway at a speed
exceeding the maximum speed limit.

VC23152  It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of an
alcoholic beverage or any drug, or under the combined influence of an
alcoholic beverage and any drug, to drive a vehicle.

VC21453  A driver facing a circular red signal shall stop at the
intersection and shall remain stopped until an indication to proceed is
shown.

VC22450  The driver of any vehicle approaching a stop sign at the
entrance to, or within, an intersection, or railroad grade crossing
shall stop at a limit line, if marked.

VC14601  No person shall drive a motor vehicle upon a highway at any
time when that person's driving privilege is suspended or revoked for
reckless driving.

VC12951  The licensee shall have the license issued to him in his
immediate possession at all times when driving a motor vehicle upon a
highway.

VC23103  any person who drives any vehicle upon a highway in willful or
wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property is guilty of
reckless driving and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by
imprisonment in the county jail for not less than five days nor more
than 90 days or by a fine of not less than one hundred thirty dollars
nor more than five hundred dollars, or by both fine and imprisonment,
except as provided in Section 23104.

VC20001  The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
injury to any person, other than himself, or death of any person shall
immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of the accident and shall
fulfill the requirements of Sections 20003 and 20004.

Any person failing to comply with all the requirements of this section
under such circumstances is guilty of a public offense and upon
conviction therof shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison,
or in the county jail for not to exceed one year or by fine not to
exceed five thousand dollars, or by both.

VC28001  Any person, while operating a motor vehicle and with the intent
to evade, wilfully flees or otherwise attempts to evade a pursuing peace
officer's motor vehicle, is guilty of misdemeanor.

VC10851  Any person who drives or takes a vehicle not his own, without
the consent of the owner thereof, and with intent either permanently or
temporarily to deprive the owner thereof of his title of or possession
of the vehicle, whether with or without the intent to steal the same is
guilty of a public offense, and upon conviction thereof shall by
punished by imprisonment in the state prison, or in the county jail for
not more than one year or by a fine of not more than five thousand
dollars, or by both such fine and imprisonment.

PENAL CODES
PC148  Resisting or Obstructing Public Officer or Peace Officer.
Every person who wilfully resists, delays, or obstructs any public
officer or peace officer, in the discharge or attempt to discharge any
duty of his office, when no other punishment is prescribed, is
punishable by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars, or by
imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or by both such
fine and imprisonment.

PC187  Murder
(a) Murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice
aforethought.

PC189  Murder of First or Second Degree
All murder which is perpetrated by means of a destructive device or
explosive, knowing use of ammunition designed to penetrate metal or
armor, poison, lying in wait, torture, or by any other kind of willful,
deliberate, and premeditated killing, or which is committed in the
perpetration of, or attempt to perpetrate, arson, rape, robbery,
burglary, mayhem, or any act punishable under Section 288, is murder of
the first degree:  and all other kinds of murders are of the second
degree.

PC190.2  Special Circumstances for Imposition of Death Penalty of Life
Without Parole.
The Penalty for a defendant found guilty of murder in the first degree
shall be death or confinement in state prison for a term of life without
the possiblity of parole in any case in which one or more of the
following special circumstances has been charged and specially found to
be true:
1.  The defendant was previously convicted of murder in the first degree
     or second degree.
2.  The victim was a peace officer, who, while engaged in the course of
    the performance of his duties was intentionally killed, and such
    defendant knew or reasonably should have known that such victim was
    a peace officer engaged in the performance of his duties.

PC196  Killing in Performance of Official Duty Justifiable
Homicide is justifiable when committed by public officers and those
acting by their command in their aid and assistance, either-
1.  In obedience to any judgment of a competent court; or,
2.  When necessarily committed in overcoming actual resistance to the
    execution of some legal process, or in the discharge of any other
    legal duty; or,
3.  When necessarily committed in retaking felons who have been rescued
    or have escaped, or when necessarily committed in arresting persons
    charged with felony, and who are fleeing from justice or resisting
    such arrest.

PC207  Kidnapping Defined.
Every person who forcibly steals, takes, or arrests any person in this
state, and carries the person into another country, state, or county, or
into another part of the same county, is guilty of kidnapping.

PC211  Robbery.
Defined.  Robbery is the felonious taking of personal property in the
possession of another, from his person or immediate presence, and
against his will, accomplished by means of force or fear.

PC212  Fear Defined.
The fear mentioned in Section 211 may be either:
1.  The fear of an unlawful injury to the person or property of the
    person robbed, or of any relative of his or member of his family;
    or,
2.  The fear of an immediate and unlawful injury to the person or
    property of anyone in the company of the person robbed at the time
    of the robbery.

PC422  Terrorist Threats - Punishment.
Any person who willfully threatens to commit a crime which will result in
death or great bodily injury to another person, with intent to terrorize
another or with reckless disregard of the risk of terrorizing another,
and who thereby either:
(a) Causes another person reasonably to be in sustained fear for his or
her or their immediate family's safety;
(b) Causes the evacuation of a building, place of assembly, or facility
used in public transportation;
(c) Interferes with essential public services; or
(d) Otherwise causes serious disruption of public activities, is guilty
of a felony and shall be punished  by imprisonment in the state prison.

PC459 Burglary.
Every person who enters any house, room, apartment, tenement, shop,
warehouse, store, mill, bar, stable, or other building, tent, vessel,
railroad car, locked or sealed cargo container, whether or not mounted
on a vehicle, trailer coach, any house car, inhabited camper, vehicle,
aircraft, mine or any underground portion thereof, with intent to
commit grand or petit larceny or any felony is guilty of burglary.  As
used in this chapter, "inhabited" means currently being used for dwelling
purposes, whether occupied or not.

PC487  Grand Theft.
Grand theft is theft committed in any of the following cases:
1.  When the money, labor or real or personal property taken is of a
    value exceeding four hundred dollars ($400).
2.  When the property is taken from the person of another.
3.  When the property taken is an automobile, firearm, horse, mare,
    gelding, any bovine animal, any caprine animal, mule, jack, jenny,
    sheep, lamb, hog, sow, boar, gilt, barrow or pig.

PC4530 Penalty for Escape or Attempt to Escape from Prison.
Every prisoner confined in a state prison who, by force or violence,
escapes or attempts to escape therefrom is punishable by imprisonment in
a state prison for a term of two, four, or six years.  The second term
of imprisonment of a person convicted under this subdivision shall
commence from the time he would otherwise have been discharged from
prison.

PC11350 Unlawful Possession.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this division, every person who
possesses any controlled substance which is a narcotic drug, unless upon
the written prescription of a physical, dentist, podiatrist, or
veterinarian licensed to practice in this state, shall be punished by
imprisonment in the state prison.

PC11351.5 Possession or Purchase of Cocaine (Other Than Cocaine
Hydrochloride) for Sale.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, every person who
possesses for sale or purchases for purposes of sale cocaine shall be
punished by imprisonment in the state prison for a period of 3 to 5
years.

PC12025 Unlawful to Carry Concealed Firearms Without License.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any person who carries
concealed within any vehicle which is under his or her control or
direction any pistol, revolver, or other firearm capable of being
concealed upon the person without having a license to carry such
firearm is guilty of a misdemeanor.  Any person convicted under this
subdivision who has previously been convicted of any felony, or of any
crime made punishable by this chapter, is guilty of a felony, and if
probation is granted or if the execution or imposition of sentence is
suspended, it shall be a condition thereof that he or she be imprisoned
in the county jail for not less than three months.

(b) Any person who carries concealed upon his or her person any pistol,
revolver, or other firearm capable of being concealed upon the person
without having a license to carry such firearm as provided in this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment in the
county jail not to exceed one year, or by a fine not to exceed one
thousand dollars, or by both such fine and imprisonment, except any
person, having been convicted of a crime against the person, property or
a narcotics or dangerous drug violation, who carries concealed upon his
or her person any firearm capable of being concealed upon the person
without having a license to carry such firearm is guilty of a public
offense and is punishable by imprisonment in a state prison, or by
imprisonment in a county jail not to exceed one year, or by fine not to
exceed one thousand dollars, or by both such fine and imprisonment.  Any
person convicted under this subdivision who has previously been
convicted of any felony or of any crime made punishable by this chapter,
is guilty of a felony, and if probation is granted, or if the execution
or imposition of sentence is suspended, it shall be a condition thereof
that he or she be imprisoned in the county jail for not less than three
months.

(c) Firearms carried openly in belt holsters are not concealed within
the meaning of this section, nor are knives which are carried openly in
sheaths suspended from the waist of the wearer.

PC12303.2 Possession of Destructive Device in Public Places.
Every person who recklessly or maliciously has in his possession any
destructive device or any explosive on a public street or highway, in or
near theater, hall, school, college, church, hotel, other public
building, or private habitation, in, on, or near any aircraft, railway
passenger train, car, cable road or cable car, vessel engaged in
carrying passengers for hire, or other public place ordinarily passed
by human beings is guilty of a felony, and shall be punishable by
imprisonment in the state prison for a period of two, four or six years.

PC12560 Penalty for Possession of Firearms by Felons.
Every person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the
United States, of any state, government, or country and who used a
firearm in the commission of such felony, who owns or has in his
possession or under his custody or control any firearm is punishable by
imprisonment in the state prison or in a county jail not exceeding one
year or by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000), or by
both such term of imprisonment and such fine.
