                                 SKID ROW

                                 presents

                             Police Quest III
 
                         Lytton Police Department 
                     Procedures and Operations Manual
                           Lytton Police Academy

                             Cadet Sonny Bonds 
 
                                 June 1976 
 
                             Locker Combo 776 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
RADIO CODES                                     3 
VEHICLE CODE                                    4 
PENAL CODE                                      4 
STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES                   5 
        Definitions                             5 
        Military time                           6 
        Traffic officer                         7 
        Supervisor's responsibility             8 
        Booking prisoner                        8 
        Booking evidence                        8 
        Physical arrest procedure               8 
        Investigative procedure                 9 
        Coroner                                 9 
        Taking of evidence                      9 
        Evidence analysis                       9 
        Criminal psychologist                   10 
        Admonition of rights                    10 
        Criteria for admonition of rights       10 
        Levels of force                         11 
        Required equipment                      11 
SPECIAL OPERATING PROCEDURES                    12 
        Computer                                12 
        The breathalyser                        12 
        Felony situations                       12 
        Obtaining entry into private property   12 
        Forceful entry into dwellings           13 
        Courtroom procedure                     13 
MAP                                             14 
GUIDE FOR NEW CADETS                            16 
FIRST DAY BRIEFING (Walk Thru)                  17 
OPERATING YOUR DEPARTMENTAL VEHICLE             18 
NOTES                                           19 
 
Page 2 
 
RADIO CODES 
 
10-1    Poor radio reception 
10-2    Radio reception good 
10-4    Received message 
10-6    On the air -- not available for call 
10-7    Off the air -- out of service 
10-8    In service 
10-9    Repeat message 
10-10   End of shift -- off duty 
10-15   Prisoner in-custody 
10-19   Return to office 
10-20   Location 
10-21   Telephone 
10-23   Standby 
10-27   Subject check 
10-29   Check for wants 
10-35   Backup requested 
11-41   Ambulance 
11-44   Fatality 
11-48   Furnish transportation 
11-79   Injury traffic collision with ambulance responding 
11-80   Traffic collision with major injury 
11-81   Traffic collision with minor injury 
11-82   Traffic collision, property damage only 
11-83   Traffic collision, no details 
11-84   Traffic control 
11-85   Tow truck 
11-99   Emergency, officer needs assistance, respond code 3 
 
Page 3 
 
VEHICLE CODE 
 
10851   Stolen vehicle 
12951   Driver's license not in possession 
14601   Driving with a suspended license 
20002   Hit and run 
21450   Failure to stop for a stop sign 
21453   Failure to stop for a red light 
21654   Driving too slow in the fast lane 
21703   Following too close 
22349   Exceeding the maximum speed limit 
23103   Reckless driving 
23152   Driving under the influence of intoxicants 
28002   Evading arrest 
05150   Not in full control of faculties 
 
PENAL CODES 

148             Resisting arrest 
187             Murder 
664,187         Attempted murder 
207             Kidnapping 
211             Armed robbery 
242             Assault and battery 
245(d)(1)       Assault and battery on a police officer 
459             Burglary 
11350           Possession of a controlled substance 
11351           Possession of cocaine 
12025           Possession of a concealed weapon 

Page 4 
 
STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES 
 
I  DEFINITIONS 
 
   Arrest 
   1. The taking into custody or detaining in custody of a suspect by 
      authority of law. 
 
   Assault 
   1. A violent physical or verbal attack. 
 
   Circumstantial Evidence 
   1. Evidence which does not conclusively prove that an event occurred, 
      but which supports a reasonable inference that the event occurred by 
      proving that surrounding events occurred or related circumstances 
      did exist. 
 
   Crime 
   1. An act or the commission of an act that is forbidden by a public law. 
   2. The omission of a duty that is commanded by a public law and that 
      makes the offender liable to punishment by that law. 
 
   Coroner 
   1. A public officer whose principal duty it is to inquire by an inquest 
      into the cause of any death which there is reason to believe was not 
      due to natural causes. 
 
   Detective 
   1. One employed or engaged in detecting lawbreakers or in getting 
      information that is not readily or publicly accessible. 
 
   Evidence 
   1. Something that furnishes proof. Something legally submitted to a 
      tribunal to ascertain the truth of a matter.  
   2. One who bears witness. 
 
   Fact 
   1. A piece of information presented as having objective reality. 
 
   Felony 
   1. A crime for which the punishment in federal law may be death or 
      imprisonment for more than one year. 
 
Page 5 
 
   Infraction 
   1. The act or instance of violating, infringement. 
 
   Misdemeanor 
   1. An offense of gravity less serious than a felony. 

   Investigate 
   1. To make a systematic examination. 
   2. To conduct an official inquiry. 
 
   Modus Operandi (MO) 
   1. Method of procedure or operation. 
   2. Repeating a particular pattern. 
 
   Motive 
   1. Something that causes a person to act. 
 
   Suspect 
   1. One suspected of a crime. 
 
   Witness 
   1. Attestation of a fact or event. 
   2. One that gives evidence. 
 
II MILITARY TIME 
 
The proper way to designate the time of day on all official documents and 
radio communications is to use military time.  Military time uses the 24-
hour clock. 
 
   1:00 a.m. is "0100 hours" 
   2:00 a.m. is "0200 hours" and so on through 12 noon 
   12 noon is "1200 hours" 
   After 12 noon, the hours continue to add on to the clock 
   until 12 midnight, when the 24-hour cycle is complete. 
   1:00 p.m. is "1300 hours" 
   2:00 p.m. is "1400 hours" and so on through 12 midnight 
   12 midnight is "2400 hours" 
 
Page 6 
 
III TRAFFIC OFFICER 
 
   1. Maintain high visibility while on routine traffic patrol. Clearly 
      visible patrol cars are proven to reduce the instances of traffic 
      collisions in their area of operation. 

   2. Pay special attention and take immediate action on the following 
      accident-causing violations: 
      a. Excessive speed. 
      b. Driving under the influence. 
      c. Reckless driving. 
      d. Failure to stop for a red light. 
      e. Failure to stop for a stop sign. 
      f. Driving too slow in the fast lane. 

   3. For officer's safety, make right hand approaches on car stops. 

   4. Be professional. Remember that you are representing the department. 
      Violators should be treated firmly but with courtesy. 
 
   5. Make sure that you have sufficient evidence for successful 
      prosecution. 
 
   6. Search and handcuff all prisoners. 

   7. Collision scenes: 
      a. Maintain traffic control. 
      b. Preserve and protect scene with proper use of flare patterns. 
      c. Summon support units necessary to resume the normal flow of 
         traffic. 
 
   8. Patrol the freeway at 55mph and pay attention to the flow of traffic. 

   9. Extreme caution must be used while operating "code 3" (red light and 
      siren).  Negligence can result in liability against the officer. 
 
  10. Use the radio sparingly. 
 
  11. Notice to appear (ticket writing). To successfully obtain and deliver 
      a notice to appear you will need to: 
      a. Have the violator's driver's license. 
      b. Enter violation code into car computer. 
      c. Give the ticket to the violator, obtain a signature, and return 
         the driver's license. 
 
Page 7 
 
 
   12. Refusal to sign a citation: 
 
       a. Advise the violator that his or her signature is not an admission 
          of guilt, only a promise to appear. 
       b. If the violator still refuses to sign, transport the violator to 
          jail. 
       c. The  violator will be required to post bond before being 
          released. 
       d. EXCEPTION: Pregnant women and the elderly.  Advise the violator 
          as above.  If the violator still refuses to sign the citation, 
          call a supervisor to the scene. 
 
IV SUPERVISOR'S RESPONSIBILITY 
 
   1. Investigate personnel complaints. 
   2. When making decisions, consider one that reflects most favorably on 
      the department. 
   3. Deal with those officers working under you in a professional manner. 
   4. Set a good example. 
   5. Give briefings and assign beats to junior officers. 
 
V BOOKING PRISONER 
 
   1. Never enter the booking facility with a weapon. 
   2. Remove all personal items from the prisoner's pockets and place them 
      into the booking drawer. 
   3. Submit proper violation codes to booking officer. 
 
VI BOOKING EVIDENCE 
 
   1. A case number is required for booking or viewing evidence. 
 
VII PHYSICAL ARREST PROCEDURE 
 
   1. Handcuffing 
      a. All male suspects shall be cuffed with hands behind the back. 
      b. All female suspects shall be cuffed. Cuffing with hands in front 
         or rear is left to the discretion of the officer. However, due to 
         the increase of assaults, the department recommends hands to the 
         rear. 
 
Page 8 
 
VIII INVESTIGATIVE PROCEDURE 
 
   1. Scene investigation. 
      a. Scene assessment: 
         (1). Use extreme caution during initial approach. 
         (2). Watch out for possible life-threatening situations. 
         (3). Remain alert and prepared to take appropriate action. 
         (4). Make good use of your notebook. 
      b. Interviewing of witnesses: 
         (1). Identify yourself. 
         (2). Listen attentively. 
         (3). Follow up all possible leads. 
 
IX  CORONER 
 
   1. The findings of the coroner are valuable to your investigation. 
   2. All personal property and effects belonging to any deceased victim 
      will be the responsibility of the coroner, providing it is not 
      needed for evidence. 
 
X  TAKING OF EVIDENCE 
 
   1. Use caution in order not to contaminate or destroy vital evidence. 
   2. Use those tools available to you. 
   3. Be observant and use caution when walking around a crime scene. 
      INADVERTENT DESTRUCTION OF EVIDENCE IS STILL DESTRUCTION OF EVIDENCE! 
 
XI  EVIDENCE ANALYSIS 
 
   1. Submit evidence to the Evidence Officer for processing. 
   2. All reports, files, or other relevant materials received from outside 
      agencies that are pertinent to an ongoing investigation will be 
      routed to the investigating officer assigned to the case. 
 
Page 9 
 
XII  CRIMINAL PSYCHOLOGIST 
 
   1. The department's criminal psychologist will assist officers in the 
      apprehension of suspects by providing psychological profiles of those 
      suspects. 
   2. An officer seeking a psychological profile of a suspect must provide 
      the criminal psychologist with sufficient information on which to 
      base the profile. This information can include: 
      a. Criminal records 
      b. Civil service or military records 
      c. Family background and history. 
      d. Details of modus operandi. 
      e. The testimony of witnesses to the suspect's behavior patterns. 
      f. School records. 
      g. Photographs or photo-reference material. 
      h. Medical records, especially those relating to blood chemistry, 
         family history, and mental or emotional problems. 
      i. Employment history and personnel files from employers. 
 
Page 10 
 
XIII LEVELS OF FORCE 
 
   1. Level One -- passive (verbal) resistance 
      a. Usually occurs during the questioning of suspects and while on 
         traffic stops. 
      b. Firm, professional conduct will, in most cases, prevent the 
         situation from escalating. 
   2. Level Two - threats indicating imminent physical attack (no weapons 
      used) 
      a. Call for backup if possible. 
      b. Use department-approved hand-to-hand combat. 
      c. Use PR-24. 
   3. Level Three -- deadly force 
      a. The discharge of any firearm at any person will be done only in 
         life-threatening situations. 
      b. Use in your own self-defense, when assaulted with a deadly weapon. 
      c. Use when in fear of your life, or the life of another. 
 
XIV REQUIRED EQUIPMENT FOR THE POLICE OFFICER 
 
   1. Suitable civilian attire (detectives only). 
   2. Departmental uniform maintained to reflect a clean, professional 
      appearance. 
   3. Boot clip holster, belt clip holster, strap on shoulder holster or 
      front-break high-rise holster. 
   4. Departmental issue "Peerless" double lock handcuffs. 
   5. Department-approved hand gun. 
   6. Investigative kit equipped with various tools used at crime scenes. 
   7. PR-24 (night stick). 
 
Page 11 
 
SPECIAL OPERATING PROCEDURES 
 
I COMPUTER 
 
   1. The computer is an invaluable investigative aid. 
   2. An access card is required to access police computers. 
   3. The computer directories are: 
      a. Homicide. 
      b. Personnel. 
      c. D.M.V. 
      d. Tools. 
 
II THE BREATHALYSER 
 
   1. The breathalyser is used to measure blood alcohol content. 
 
III FELONY SITUATIONS. 
 
   1. Approach the situation with weapon loaded and drawn. 
   2. Your partner should be with you or in close proximity. 
   3. Call for additional support if the situation warrants it. 
   4. Avoid placing yourself in a vulnerable position. 
   5. Identify yourself as a police officer. 
   6. Verbally command the suspect. 
   7. Keep suspect's hands over head. 
   8. Handcuff and search the prisoner. 
 
IV OBTAINING ENTRY INTO PRIVATE PROPERTY 
 
   1. Private property includes any private dwelling, building, or any 
      privately-owned vehicle. 
   2. PURSUIT 
      If an officer is in hot pursuit and suspect enters private property 
      to avoid apprehension, the officer may enter that property to effect 
      the arrest.  However, because of officer safety, it is not advisable 
      to do so.  Call for assistance and maintain surveillance. 
 
Page 12 
 
   3. Other Situations 
      a. Requesting admission. An officer may present himself/herself at a 
         legitimate entrance to the private property and ask for 
         admittance.  The officer must identify himself and his purpose. 
      b. Admission refused. If admission is refused the officer can only 
         gain entry by obtaining a search warrant. 
 
V FORCEFUL ENTRY INTO DWELLINGS 
 
   1. In the case of a locked or fortified building, specific departmental 
      tools may be required to gain entry.  Available tools include: 
      a. Hand-held power ram. Sufficient for most non-reinforced entrances. 
      b. Motorized converted military armored ram.  Used to violate 
         heavily-reinforced steel entrances. 
 
VI COURTROOM PROCEDURE 
 
   1. Be prompt 
   2. Be prepared and have proper paperwork available 
   3. Testify in a professional manner and cite only those facts 
      surrounding the case 
 
Page 13 
 
STREET GRID OF LYTTON

(see LYTTON.IFF Picture)

Pages 14, 15

GUIDE FOR NEW CADETS 
 
   You're in a new uniform.  You're excited.  You're nervous.   You're 
ready to take on the Sicilian crime world and the Latin American drug 
traffickers and come out unscathed. 

   You're a cop. 

   Before you start your first day on the job, there are some things you 
should know about the road you've chosen.  Someone once said that being a 
cop is ninety-five percent boredom.  Routine is the foundation of police 
work - routine that can include anything from sitting under a bridge with a 
radar gun in your hand for sixteen hours to making a midnight trip to the 
emergency room with half a kid in the back of your car.  It may not seem 
glamorous to rookies like you, but men who have been in the force know that 
"a cop's gotta do what a cop's gotta do". 
 
   What's the other five percent of being a cop?  Try plunging down the 
steepest roller-coaster you can imagine at about a hundred and fifty miles 
per hour.  At night.  Except, there's nobody at the controls down below. 
You've got the controls.  There's a lot of screaming people on the ride 
behind you, and you're the one steering. Now, the brakes go.... 
 
   I know what you're thinking.  You're thinking that ninety-five and five 
sound like pretty good percentages.  You're thinking that you could manage 
being lucky five percent of the time.  Trouble is, that's an average. On 
certain days, for certain cops, things can get MUCH worse. 
 
   But, that's why you joined, isn't it?  The force needs you.  Lytton 
needs you.  And you can steer real good. 
 
   So what are you waiting for?  Go out and DO IT. 
 
WARNING 
 
   The next page is for "rookies" only. Experienced officers might want to 
avoid the first day briefing and strike out on their mission without undue 
assistance from headquarters. 
 
Page 16 
 
I FIRST DAY BRIEFING (Walk-Thru) 
 
   Watch the opening cartoon at least once to learn the story background. 
To skip the cartoon, press the ESC key. 

   When the game opens, you'll be in the hallway at the Lytton Police 
Station. 
 
   1) Look at your surroundings.  Click the "EYE" icon on: 
      The floor 
      The window 
      The elevator 
      The elevator button 
      The door on the left side of the hall 
      The door on the right side of the hall 
   2) Go into the Sergeant's office.  Click the "HAND" icon on"
      The door to the Sergeant's office. 
   3) Look around the office.  Click the "EYE" icon on:
      The desk against the wall    
      The things on the desk 
   4) Check your in/out basket.  Click the "HAND" icon on:
      The in/out basket on your desk.  You should get a message about a 
      memo you just picked up. 
 
   5) Look at the memo in inventory.  Click on the inventory icon on the 
      icon bar.  Click the "EYE" icon on the memo once the inventory screen 
      is up. 
   6) Leave the Sergeant's office and "WALK" to the end of the hall, away 
      from the elevator.  In the next section of hallway is an open door on 
      the left.  Click the "EYE" on the door to find out what room it is. 
      "WALK" to the door and go inside the room. 
   7) In the briefing room, look at the other officers.  Click the "EYE" 
      icon on the officers. 
   8) Talk to Officer Morales.  Click the "TALK" icon on Morales. 
   9) Take the clipboard from the podium.  Click the "HAND" icon on the 
      clipboard. 
  10) After the briefing, leave the room and go back to the Sergeant's 
      office.  Morales left the briefing room before you.  She is in the 
      room when you enter. 
 
Page 17 
 
II OPERATING YOUR DEPARTMENTAL VEHICLE 
 
   1) Click the mouse on the road in front of your car to accelerate. 
   2) Click the mouse on the road behind your car to decelerate. 
   3) To turn onto a cross-street: Move the mouse cursor to the left side 
      of the road (left turn) or the right side of the road (right turn) to 
      get a left or right arrow.  Click the mouse button on the cross-
      street. 
   4) Stay off the radio unless you get an official call! 
   5) The red button near your steering wheel is for Code 3 (siren and 
      lights). 
 
Page 18 
 
NOTES 
 
Rebecca Swartz Wald 555-2787 
Ariel Spenser 555-2086 
Pauline Jackson 555-0841 
Marie Wilkans (!) 555-4468 
- Suspect Harralson Stake-Out.  500 Palm 8pm 
- Mc Alby Trial Testimony.  June 25th, 10am 
- Bains.  Informant says this guy is the one we've been looking for !!! 
2/5/87 Promoted to narcotics detective 
6/30/88 Promoted to homicide detective 
1/30/91 Promoted to sergeant detective 
5/15/88 Bains Conviction came through (YEAH!) 

    * 4/20 Marie's Birthday

Darling,
Our house closed escrow this morning - can you believe it!  All we need
now is something (one!) to put into the extra bedroom.  Well, we can
work on that tonight!
                                                           Love, Marie
 
9/5/87 Jesse Bains Arrested 
11/25/88 Wedding Anniversary 
- Pick Up Mortgage Loan Application Tonight At Bofa 
- Review Board Ruled Justifiable Homicide 9/20/89. 
  Judges quote, "There's no way Officer Bonds could have brought Bains 
  back alive." 
- AA $2400 to Buffalo, 7:44am Niagra Falls Inn Resv. 
  Inn Mgr. will deliver a dozen roses to suite for Marie. 

                        Lytton Police Department
                         Performance Evaluation

Employee Name:  Bonds, Sonny                           Date:  June 12, 1988

For the period covering:  June 1, 1987 - June 1, 1988

Employee Title:  Narcotics Detective

List the significant events on which evaluation is based:  During this
year, Officer Bonds diligently and expertly tracked down a major source
of drugs in the Lytton area.  As a result, Bonds was directly responsible
for the arrest and conviction of Jessie Bains, a.k.a. the "Death Angel",
organizer and leader of Lytton's worst drug cartel.  Bains was responsible
for the murder of at least five known drug dealers that would not join
his cartel, and was responsible for the insemination of at least 500
kilograms of cocaine into the Lytton area.  His removal from the streets
was a significant triumph for local law enforcement.

Assess employee performance:  Officer Bonds has continued to improve
himself since his graduation from the Lytton Police Academy.  He
continues to educate himself on police and courtroom procedure as well as
maintaining the familiarity with local industry and the community that
is so vital to the investigation of local crime.  His field experience
is also exemplary and he has maintained maximum physical and weapon skills.
With his superior performance in the Bains case this year, Officer Bonds
has proven that he's one of the brightest, most capable young men working
for the police force.  The Bains case demonstrated Bonds' proficiency
in investigative work, his ability to handle himself in highly dangerous
situations, and his professionalism in dealing with the press and with the
courtroom appearances that resulted from the case.  The decision to promote
him to Homicide Detective last year has proven to be a wise one.

Access the employee's potential growth within this organization:  I am
recommending Officer Bonds be promoted to a Homicide Detective Grade 2
immediately.  If his performance continues, he should be a candidate for
a promotion to Sergeant sometime within

Page 1

Lytton Daily News - September 3, 1989

Death Angel's Reign of Terror Ends

Targeted Lovers Thwart Drug Lord's Revenge

Lytton.  Police report today that escaped drug lord Jessie Bains, a.k.a.
"The Death Angel", was killed while waging a war of terrorism on the two
young lovers responsible for his incarceration.  Bains escaped from the 
Lytton County jail nearly two weeks ago.  He'd been transferred to the 
local facility from the high-security state prison to await retrial.
Instead of fleeing after his escape, Bains went after two old enemies,
L.P.D. Homicide Detective Sonny Bonds and Bond's fiancee, Marie Wilkans.

The grudge was an old one.  Bains was imprisoned in 1987 after his drug
cartel was infiltrated by Wilkans, a police "plant".  Detective Bonds
was the man in charge of the '87 Bains investigation and was looking for
a reliable informant to plant into the drug cartel when he came across
Wilkans in the County Jail.  Wilkans had been arrested for first-offense
solicitation.

Bonds and Wilkans had been high-school sweethearts who had lost track
of each other - Bonds' path leading him into law-enforcement and Wilkans'
to hard time.  Bonds immediately chose Wilkans for the job and the police
offered to drop all charges in return for Wilkan's cooperation in the 
Bains surveillance.  Bonds and Wilkans worked together to gather 
incriminating evidence against Bains.  It was that evidence that insured
Bains' incarceration following his capture in a raid on the Hotel
Delphoria. 

But, unfortunately for Wilkans and Bonds, the case didn't end there.
Bains vowed revenge on the day he was sentenced, telling the press
"Lytton isn't through with me yet, or me with Lytton.  Those who put
me here will pay."  Upon learning of Bains's escape, Bonds rushed to
warn Wilkans, now employed as a waitress at Arnie's in downtown Lytton.
He arrived to find that Bains had already been there and taken Wilkans
hostage.  Bains left a taunting message for Bonds, hoping to lure him
into a trap and do away with both old foes.

The kidnapping led Bonds on an interstate chase.  He tracked Bains
to Steelton and discovered his hideout in the Steelton sewer control
room.  Bonds entered the room while Bains was out, found Wilkans, and
freed her.  According to Wilkans, Bains returned at that moment and a
shoot-out between the two men ensued.  Bains was fatally wounded and
died instantly.

In the aftermath of the nightmare, Wilkans revealed something of her
terror to reporters; "I was scared out of my mind - less for myself
than for Sonny.  I knew he would come for me and I knew Bains would be
ready for him."  A review board is currently conducting a routine
investigation into the violent death of the man who had courted violence
all his life - the man who called himself "The Death Angel".
     
SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW
