WELCOME TO JURASSIC PARK
------------------------

Astounding biotechnical advances have brought back to life the most awesome
creatures ever to walk the face of the earth and have made possible the
most incredible animal preserve of all time.. JURASSIC PARK!

Humans and dinosaurs - thought to have missed meeting one another by over
6O million years - have been brought together on isla Nublar, a tiny island
off the cost of Central America.

As Dr. Alan Grant, world-renowned palaeontologist, you have been invited to
examine the cloned inhabitants of this mysterious, fog-shrouded island.
the dinosaurs are monitored and controlled by a huge supercomputer, and you
have been assured that you can explore the island and see these
breathtaking behemoths in complete safety.

But now something has gone terribly wrong.
Jurassic Park's computer programmer, Dennis Nedry, has sabotaged the
security systems - electrified fences and motion sensors are down - and
hundreds of fearsome prehistoric predators have excaped their pens and
paddocks to roam free on the island. Vicious raptors, spitters and
tyrannosaurs have quickly overrun even the fortified visitor centre. And
millions of years of extinction haven't slowed these creatures' reflexes -
they still know how to hunt!

You'll need to accomplish a number of increasingly difficult tasks before
you're free to attempt the toughest one of all : getting yourself safely
off the island!

Are you ready to face some of history's most powerful and deadly
carnivores?
The perilous primeval world of Jurassic Park awaits!

GETTING STARTED
---------------
AMIGA:Insert disk 1 into drive A (internal drive) and turn on the computer.
the program will then load automatically. Follow the on-screen instructions
for loading the subsequent disks.


EXTERIOR CONTROLS
Joystick or Keyboard may be used. Push the joystick in the appropriate
direction to move, and use the fire button to fire weapons.

	KEYS
	----
	X-Move left		C-Move right
	P-Move up		L-Move down
	SPACE-fire
	RETURN-Activate motion sensor terminals and other switches
	I-inventory

INTERIOR CONTROLS

	KEYS		JOYSTICK		ACTION

 ^
 |  ,P,Keypad 8		Up			Move Forward

 |
\ / ,L,Keypad 2		Down			Move Backwards

<-- ,X,Keypad 4		Left			Turn to the Left

--> ,C,keypad 6		Right			Turn to the Right

Space/Right Shift Key	Fire Button		Fire Weapon

Left Shift Key					Run Instead of Walk

     Z,Keypad 1					Side Step to the Left

     V,Keypad 3					Side Step to the Right

     M						Display Map

     ESC					Return to Game

     F						Pause Game,any key resumes

     ESCAPE					Quit to title screen


THE MAP (INTERIOR SECTIONS)

Press M to bring up a Map of your present surroundings. Only the places
visited are displayed. Use the cursor keys to scroll around the map, press
any other key to exit back to the game.


DISPLAY EXTERIOR

As you make your way through the park, you control Dr. Grant's movements
from above and behind him.
The following is displayed on the screen:
Energy remaining
Shots remaining in wepon
OR Energy remaining when using cattle prod.

DISPLAY INTERIOR

In interior scenes the panel displays:
Remaining Ammunition
Remaining energy
Overhead Map
Message Window for clues and messages sent by waklie talkie from Hammond,
Ellie and the kids.

PLAYING THE GAME

AS a world-renowned palaentologist, you have been invited to a special
preview of Jurassic Park.  Imagin being able to study a live animal that
you thought you'd only see as bone fragments. But your dream of a lifetime
has become a nightmare since a system failure released the dinosaurs from
thire carfully constructed pens. Now they have overrun the island, and
you've got some serious worl to do before you can get yourself off the
island.

GAME OBJECTIVE

You are stranded in the tyrannosaur paddock of Jarassic Park.  Nearby,
somewhere, are John Hammond's grandchildren, Tim and Lex. You must fine
them and take them with you through the various dinosaur paddocks, to the
visitors center. From there you must restore the parks systems and call for
a rescue helicopter.

THE KIDS
Tim and Lex are higing, scared somewhere. If you can find them then they
will follow you as best they can.  Sometimes, however, they may just be to
frightend and do something silly.  You'll have to protect the from the
dinosaurs and rescue them from any scrapes they may get into.

PADDOCKS
Each paddock was supposed to contain one species of dinosaur but since the
system failure many have broken free.
They have scattered about the island by wrecking the fences and creeping
into underground tunnels and drainage pipes.

WEAPONS
In hand to hand combat, a human doesn't have much of a chance against a
dinosaur, so Dr Grant needs armaments to aid him.

You will start with a Fazer.  This basic wepon throws out a boult of
electricity which will deatroy some smaller dinosaurs and stun others. The
Fazer uses energy quickly and must be given a moment to recharge. If you
look around you may find some other wepons that may have been discareded by
some of the park workers. Remember though, this is supposed to be a theme
park so you won't find any devices of mass destruction here. The most
powerfull weapon carried is always selected. If you are using a gun when
its ammo runs out then the Fazer will be automatically used.

OBJECTS TO PICK UP AND USE
Pick-ups can be found inside or outside of buildings. You will need these
items to complete your objectives and get out of Jurassic Park.
When you pick up an object an icon will appear briefly to tell you what it
is. Objects are automatically used whenever they are needed. (e.g. if you
walk towards a locked door and you are carrying the correct keycard then
the door will unlock).
An icon will again appear to tell you which object was used.
some of the more common pick-ups are-
AMMUNITION:-Some weapons require ammunition.Collect These boxes to ensure
you dont run out.
FIRST AID KIT:-Collect to heal your injuries and restore all of your
energy. These aew valuable since there are a lot of ways to get hurt in
Jurassic Park.

OBJECTS TO PUSH AROUND
Some objects that you may find will be too large to carry but can still be
moved. If you find a rock, try pushing it around (just walk into it).
These could be used to overcome some obstacles. If you push a rock against
a wall, just keep pushing and  Grant will jump on top of it.

MOTION SENSORS
Elecrtonic motion sensors are located throught Jurassic Park. This is how
the computer was supposed to keep track of the dinosaurs. When the motion
sensors are working they can detect all moving objects on the island, and
can even identify the different types of dinosaurs running free in the
park.

Connected to the motion sensors are computer terminals that you can use to
call up information.  You will also need the terminals to control park
functions, like opening gates and doors, and to receive urgent messages
from the controll room. you can access a computer terminal by walking up to
it and Pressing RETURN when the terminal icon appears.  To use the
terminal, simply follow the on-screen prompts.

UTILITY SHEDS
In some of the dinosaur paddocks you may find the concrete utility sheds.
Most of them can be unlocked fron the motion sensor terminals and may
contain somthing to help you. Some of them are also connected to a network
of maintenance tunnels underneath the park.


DINOSAURS:-THERE ARE MANY TYPES OF DINOSAUR ALL OVER JURASSIC PARK.
Here are some of the main ones:

COMPSOGNATHUS (Compy)

These small canivores will attack in packs, weighing you down by their
sheer numbers. The compys will also bite, their venom weakening and
eventually paralysing you.


GALLIMIMUS

These mild herbivores will not atteck you but are very easily disturbed and
are quick to stampede. They run extremely fast, and will run into you and
injure you unless you get out of the way.

VELOCIRAPTOR (Raptor)

The Raptor stands Six feet tall and is pound for pound the most vicious
dinosaur that ever lived.  As intelligent asa chimpanzees, they are the
most cunnung creature in Jurassic Park. They hunt in packs and will attack
just for the sport of it. They can figure out whwrw you are , and how to
get to you, and will even split up to head you off. They run at speeds of
up to 6O miles per hour, and with a 6-inch retractable, razor-sharp claw at
the end of each limb, can fell a man in one swipe.

DILOPHOSAUR (Spitter)

These four-foot high kangaroo-like animals seem playful and frendly, but
whwn you guard is down a brilliantly-coloured crest fans out over their
head,and you know you are within range of their blinding paralysing spit. 
They can spit a venomous projectile at you with speed and accuracy.

TRICERATOPS

The Triceratops is nearly the size of an elephant, and is built low to the
ground with stumpy legs and a massive head with three horns, the longest
protruding from the middle of its face. They are easily startled and will
charge you.

TYRANNOSAURUS REX (T-Rex)
 
The most famous predator in history, the t-rex is the classic blood-thirsty
carnivore. Stanging eighteen feet tall with a head five feet long, the
tyrannasaur has huge and powerfull jaws which can swallow a man whole. They
are capable of eating a ton of food at one time. Be on the lookout for this
hunter, or you will be snapped up before you know what's happening.



There are many things in Jurassic Park that will make your tasks difficult
some are geological features and some are features of the security system.
Some of these obsticles include: OBSTICLES

Electronic Fences
These separate the dinosaurs and the different areas of the park. Most of
the fences are off so they will probably be safe to touch. To open a gate
in the fence, you may need to unlock it from a computer terminal, or find a
keycard.

Cliffs and Rocks
You can climb up small steps by just walking into them.  Walk off edges to
descend, but don't fall to far or you'll be knocked unconscious and eaten
before you wake up.

Trees and Bushes 
Raptors and other dinos can hide behind these and jump out at you Surprise!

Rock Avalanches
Remember you are just a dino doc, not a super hero-rocks will crush you
flat.

Fast Flowing Rivers
Rivers snake their way across Isla Nublar separating dinosaurs and areas of
the park. Like the electric fences, these can help you by stoping
dinosaurs, bet they can also stop you, since they can only be crossed at
certain points.

Deadly Dino Dragonfly
This is one big bug. It will follow you and injure you by stinging. Good
thing it's not a mosquito, or some future geneticist might dig your DNA out
of amber millions of years from now and put your clones in Palaeontologist
Park.

HINTS AND TIPS

* Learn the attack patterns of dinosaurs.

* When you fell the ground shake, run for your life!.

* If you're stuck head for a computer terminal.

* look for steps to take you up mountains

* If you cant find any steps then make your own using boulders.

* Dont push anything of the edge off a cliff unless your sure you wont need
it later.

* Dont try to shoot at the big dinos -just stay out of their way!.



O and yes Be careful out there..

---
Typed by Scooter